# Context

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of WEX Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of WEX Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive (loss) income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated March 1, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Revenue - Refer to Notes 1 and 3 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
The Company’s revenue is comprised of transaction-based fees made up of a significant volume of low-dollar transactions, sourced from multiple systems, databases, and other tools. The processing and recording of revenue is highly automated and is based on contractual terms with merchants, customers and other parties. Because of the nature of the Company’s transaction-based fees, the Company uses automated systems to process and record its revenue transactions.
Given the Company’s systems to process and record revenue are highly automated, auditing revenue is complex and challenging due to the extent of audit effort required and involvement of professionals with expertise in information technology (IT) necessary to identify, test, and evaluate the Company’s systems, software applications, and automated controls.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the Company’s systems to process revenue transactions included the following procedures, among others:
•With the assistance of our IT specialists, we:
-Identified the significant systems used to process revenue transactions and tested the effectiveness of general IT controls over each of these systems, including testing of user access controls, change management controls, and IT operations controls.
-Performed testing of the effectiveness of system interface controls and automated controls within the relevant revenue streams, as well as the controls designed to ensure the accuracy and completeness of revenue.
•We tested the effectiveness of controls over the Company’s relevant revenue business processes, including those in place to reconcile the various systems to the Company’s general ledger.
•With the assistance of our data specialists, we created data visualizations to evaluate recorded revenue and evaluate trends in the transactional revenue data.
•For a sample of revenue transactions, we performed detail transaction testing by agreeing the amounts recognized to source documents and testing the mathematical accuracy of the recorded revenue.
Convertible Notes - Refer to Note 16 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
In July 2020, the Company issued shares of the Company’s common stock and convertible notes (“Convertible Notes”) for an aggregate purchase price of $389.2 million. The Company allocated the total proceeds on a relative fair value basis to the sale of the Company’s common stock and the Convertible Notes. Next, as the Convertible Notes permit the Company to settle the conversion in cash, the Company allocated the Convertible Notes into liability and equity components. The fair value of the liability component was determined utilizing a combination of a binomial lattice-based model and a discounted cash flow model that includes assumptions such as implied credit spread, expected volatility, and the risk-free rate for notes with a similar term. The carrying amount of the equity component was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the total proceeds allocated to the Convertible Notes.
Given (a) the complexity of applying the accounting framework for the Convertible Notes, and (b) the determination of the fair value of the liability component requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions relating to the implied credit spread, expected volatility, and the risk-free rate, performing audit procedures to (a) evaluate the appropriateness of the accounting framework and (b) the reasonableness of these estimates and assumptions required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the accounting for the Convertible Notes, including the Company’s judgments and calculations related to the fair value of the liability component, included the following procedures, among others:
•We tested the effectiveness of controls over the Company’s accounting for the Convertible Notes, and over the determination of the fair value of the liability component.
•With the assistance of professionals in our firm having expertise in debt issuance accounting, we evaluated the Company’s conclusions regarding the accounting treatment applied to the Convertible Notes.
•With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the valuation methodology and the significant assumptions used to determine the fair value of the liability component, by:
-Testing the source information underlying the fair value of the liability component and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations.
-Developing an independent expectation of certain of the significant assumptions, including the implied credit spread and expected volatility, and comparing our estimate to the Company’s estimate.
Acquisitions - Refer to Note 4 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
On December 15, 2020, the Company entered into a settlement agreement dismissing the legal proceedings and appeals between the Company and the shareholders of eNett, Optal and other parties thereto and closed on the acquisition of the eNett and Optal businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $577.5 million.
The Company determined the aggregate purchase price represents consideration paid for two separate elements, the businesses acquired and the settlement of litigation and allocated $415 million of the purchase price to the acquired businesses based on their estimated fair value with the residual value of $162.5 million allocated to the legal settlement.
Management has estimated the provisional fair value of the acquired businesses utilizing a discounted cash flow method and guideline transaction method that required the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions related to future cash flows and the selection of the discount rate.
We identified the fair value of the business as a critical audit matter because of the significant estimates and assumptions the Company makes to calculate fair value of the businesses for purposes of recording the acquisition and the legal settlement. This required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort when performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the Company’s forecasts of future cash flows as well as the selection of the discount rate, including the need to involve our internal fair value specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the forecasts of future cash flows and the selection of the discount rate for the acquired businesses included the following, among others:
•We tested the effectiveness of controls over the valuation of the acquired businesses, including management’s control over the forecasts of future cash flows and selection of the discount rate.
•We evaluated the Company’s conclusions regarding the accounting treatment applied to the acquisition and legal settlement.
•We assessed the reasonableness of management’s forecasts of future cash flows by comparing the projections to historical results, certain peer companies and industry data.
•We also held various discussions with accounting and operations management regarding the business assumptions utilized in the valuation models and, on a test basis, obtained audit support to substantiate the assumptions therein.
•With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the (1) valuation methodologies and (2) discount rate used by:
-Evaluating the valuation models to ensure consistency with generally accepted valuation practices.
-Testing the source information underlying the determination of the discount rate and testing the mathematical accuracy of the calculations.
-Developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rate selected by management.
•We evaluated whether the estimated future cash flows were consistent with evidence obtained in other areas of the audit.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Boston, Massachusetts
March 1, 2021
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2003.
WEX INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(in thousands, except per share data)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
WEX INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME
(in thousands)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
WEX INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(in thousands, except per share data)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
WEX INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(in thousands)
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
WEX INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(in thousands)
(a) The following table provides a reconciliation of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash reported within our consolidated balance sheets to amounts within our consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
1.Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Business Description
WEX Inc. (“Company”, “we” or “our”) is a leading financial technology service provider having simplified the complexities of payment systems across continents and industries. The Company provides products and services that meet the needs of businesses in various geographic regions including North America, Asia Pacific and Europe. The Company’s Fleet Solutions, Travel and Corporate Solutions, and Health and Employee Benefit Solutions segments provide our customers with security and control for complex payments across a wide spectrum of business sectors.
Basis of Presentation and Use of Estimates and Assumptions
The accompanying consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, include the accounts of the Company and its wholly and majority-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
The Company prepares its consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP and with the Rules and Regulations of the SEC, specifically Regulation S-X and the instructions to Form 10-K. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and those differences may be material.
The Company rounds amounts in the consolidated financial statements to thousands within tables and millions within text (unless otherwise specified), and calculates all percentages and per-share data from underlying whole-dollar amounts. Thus, certain amounts may not foot, crossfoot, or recalculate based on reported numbers due to rounding.
COVID-19 Pandemic Response and Impact
A novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) was first identified in Wuhan, China in January 2020, and subsequently declared a global pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020.
During the first quarter of 2020, the Company took a number of precautionary steps to safeguard its business and employees from the effects of COVID-19 including restricting business travel, temporarily closing offices and canceling participation in various industry events. Additionally, in an effort to rescale the business and safeguard shareholder value in this unprecedented operating environment, we took certain measures to both permanently reduce headcount and furlough employees across our worldwide offices where necessary. Aside from the employee furloughs, which ended during the third quarter of 2020, the precautionary steps described above largely remain in force as the Company continues to closely track and assess the evolving effect of the pandemic. The Company is actively managing its responses in collaboration with its employees, customers and suppliers.
The spread of COVID-19, and conditions arising in connection with it, including restrictions on businesses and individuals and wider changes in business and customer behavior, had a negative impact on the Company’s businesses during the year ended December 31, 2020. The following describes these impacts by reportable segment:
Fleet Solutions - The Fleet Solutions segment has seen both positive and negative impacts as a result of the world's response to COVID-19, with the negative impacts significantly outweighing the positive. Firstly, 2020 revenue has significantly decreased as a result of lower transaction prices driven by a decrease in the average U.S. price per gallon of fuel as compared to 2019. Volumes have also negatively impacted the segment's results during 2020 as compared to 2019 due to lower volumes in the North American fleet and international portions of the business. Partly offsetting these negatively impacted areas of the business were volume trends in our over-the-road trucking business, which have increased relative to prior year due to increased shipping to individuals during the U.S. lockdown, but represent a smaller portion of the overall segment.
Travel and Corporate Solutions - Of the Company's segments, Travel and Corporate Solutions has been the most severely impacted by the pandemic and the corresponding decline in worldwide travel and tourism. Purchase volume in the travel portion of the segment was significantly lower in 2020 as compared to 2019. In contrast, the corporate payments portion of the segment has seen an increase in purchase volumes during 2020, which is largely attributable to the ongoing migration of businesses to virtual payments and increasing usage of our accounts payable products. These improvements, however, represent a smaller percentage of the total segment.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Health and Employee Benefit Solutions - The Health and Employee Benefit Solutions' volume was most challenged by the pandemic during the second quarter of 2020 as a result of cardholders deferring non-essential medical treatments when U.S. lockdown restrictions were most severe. However, by the fourth quarter of 2020, the U.S. Health business saw a slight increase in purchase volumes relative to the same period in the prior year.
Significant Accounting Policies
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Highly liquid investments with original maturities at the time of purchase of three months or less (that are readily convertible to cash) are considered to be cash equivalents and are stated at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash and cash equivalents include Eurodollar time deposits, and money market funds, which are unsecured short-term investments entered into with financial institutions.
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash represents funds collected from individuals or employers on behalf of our customers that are to be remitted to third parties or funds required to be maintained under certain vendor agreements. With the acquisition of eNett and Optal, restricted cash as of December 31, 2020 also includes amounts received from online travel agencies held in segregated accounts until a transaction is settled. Restricted cash is not available to fund the Company’s operations. Additionally, we maintain an offsetting liability against restricted cash.
Accounts Receivable, Net of Allowances
Accounts receivable consists of amounts billed and due from third parties. We often extend short-term credit to cardholders and pay the merchant for the purchase price, less the fees we retain and record as revenue. We subsequently collect the total purchase price from the cardholder.
The Company adopted Topic 326 on January 1, 2020, utilizing the modified-retrospective approach, under which prior period comparable financial information was not adjusted. Topic 326 amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach based on expected losses rather than incurred losses to estimate credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables and off-balance sheet credit exposures.
The following table illustrates the adoption impact of Topic 326:
1 This impact does not reflect the economic disruption resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic since it occurred subsequent to January 1, 2020.
Allowance for Accounts Receivable
The allowance for accounts receivable reflects management’s current estimate of uncollectible balances on its accounts receivable and consists primarily of reserves for credit losses. As a result of the adoption of Topic 326, the reserve for expected credit losses includes both a quantitative and qualitative reserve component. The quantitative component is primarily calculated using an analytic model, which includes the consideration of historical loss experience and past events to calculate actual loss-rates at the portfolio level. It also includes reserves against specific customer account balances determined to be at risk for non-collection based on customer information including delinquency, changes in payment patterns and other information. The qualitative component is determined through analyzing recent trends in economic indicators and other current and forecasted information to determine whether loss-rates are expected to change significantly in comparison to historical loss-rates at the portfolio level. When such indicators are forecasted to deviate from the current or historical median, the Company qualitatively assesses what impact, if any, the trends are expected to have on the reserve for credit losses. Economic indicators include
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
consumer price indices, consumer spending and unemployment trends, among others. See Note 6, Accounts Receivable, for discussion regarding the adjustments made during the year ended December 31, 2020 as a result of these assessments.
Accounts receivable are evaluated for credit losses on a pooling basis based on similar risk characteristics including industry of the borrower, historical or expected credit loss patterns, risk ratings or classification, and geographic location. As a result of this evaluation, our portfolio segments consist of the following:
•Fleet Solutions - The majority of the customer base consists of companies within the transportation, logistics and fleet industries. The associated credit losses by customer are generally low, however, the Fleet Solutions segment has historically comprised the majority of the Company’s provision for credit loss. Credit losses generally correlate with changes in consumer price indices and other indices that measure trends and volatility including the Institute of Supply Management Purchasing Index and the U.S. Volatility Index.
•Travel and Corporate Solutions - The customer base is comprised of businesses operating in a wide range of industries including large online travel agencies. With the exception of the eNett and Noventis portfolios, which have minimal credit risk due to their respective business models and collection terms, the associated credit losses are sporadic and closely correlate with trends in consumer metrics, including consumer spending and the consumer price index.
•Health and Employee Benefit Solutions - The customer base includes third-party administrators, individual employers and employees. The associated credit losses are generally low. Prior to the sale of WEX Latin America, the Company maintained credit exposure on certain associated receivables not sold to the securitization fund and accordingly established an allowance for credit losses, which was included in the Health and Employee Benefit Solutions balance.
When accounts receivable exhibit elevated credit risk characteristics as a result of bankruptcies, disputes, conversations with customers, or other significant credit loss events, they are assessed account level credit loss estimates. Assumptions regarding expected credit losses are reviewed each reporting period and may be impacted by actual performance of accounts receivable and changes in any of the factors discussed above.
Prior to the adoption of Topic 326 on January 1, 2020, the accounts receivable allowance reflected management’s estimate of uncollectible balances resulting from credit losses and based on the determination of the amount of expected losses inherent in the accounts receivable as of the reporting date.
The allowance for accounts receivable also includes reserves for waived finance fees, which are used to maintain customer goodwill and recorded against the late fee revenue recognized, as well as reserves for fraud losses, which are recorded as credit losses. Management monitors known and suspected fraudulent activity identified by the Company, as well as fraudulent claims reported by customers, in estimating the reserve for expected fraud losses.
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
The Company has various off-balance sheet commitments, including the extension of credit to customers, accounts receivable factoring and accounts receivable securitization, which carry credit risk exposure. Such arrangements are described in Note 21, Commitments and Contingencies, and Note 13, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. These items were not significantly impacted by the adoption of Topic 326 as of December 31, 2020.
Investment Securities
Changes in the fair value of investment securities are included in net unrealized (loss) gain on financial instruments within our consolidated statements of operations. Realized gains and losses and declines in fair value determined to be other-than-temporary are included in non-operating expenses. The cost basis of securities is based on the specific identification method. Investment securities held by the Company were purchased and are held by WEX Bank primarily in order to meet the requirements of the Community Reinvestment Act.
Derivatives
From time to time, the Company utilizes derivative instruments as part of its overall strategy to reduce the impact of interest and foreign currency exchange rate volatility. The Company’s derivative instruments are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company’s derivative instruments outstanding at December 31, 2020 and 2019 consist entirely of interest rate swap agreements that have not been designated as hedges. Realized and unrealized gains and losses on the derivatives are recognized in financing interest and unrealized gains and losses on financial instruments, respectively. For
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
the purposes of cash flow presentation, realized and unrealized gains or losses are included within cash flows from operating activities.
Leases
Effective January 1, 2019, the Company's real estate leases are accounted for using a right-of-use model, which recognizes that at the date of commencement, a lessee has a financial obligation to make lease payments to the lessor for the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term. The lessee recognizes a corresponding right-of-use asset related to this right. The Company made an accounting policy election to not recognize assets or liabilities for leases with a term of less than twelve months and to account for all components in a lease arrangement as a single combined lease component. Certain of our lease agreements include variable rent payments, consisting primarily of rental payments adjusted periodically for inflation and amounts paid to the lessor based on cost or consumption, such as maintenance and utilities. These costs are expensed as incurred. As the Company’s leases do not specify an implicit rate, the Company uses an incremental borrowing rate based on information available at the lease commencement date to determine the present value of the lease payments.
The Company evaluates right-of-use assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. Specifically, the Company may choose to exit a lease prior to the end of the lease term. In circumstances when the Company has made the decision to exit the lease and does not have the ability and intent to sublease such exited facility, the Company adjusts the estimated useful life of the right-of-use asset so that it ends on the cease use date. The accelerated lease expense is recognized on a straight-line basis through the end of the useful life.
See Note 15, Leases, for further information.
Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software
Property, equipment and capitalized software are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Replacements, renewals and improvements are capitalized and costs for repair and maintenance are expensed as incurred. Leasehold improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method over the shorter of the remaining lease term or the useful life of the improvement. Depreciation and amortization for all other property, equipment and capitalized software is primarily computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives shown below.
The Company’s developed software is used to provide processing and information management services to customers. A significant portion of the Company’s capital expenditures is devoted to the development of such internal-use computer software. Costs incurred during the preliminary project stage are expensed as incurred. Software development costs are capitalized during the application development stage. Capitalization begins when the preliminary project stage is complete, as well as when management authorizes and commits to the funding of the project. Capitalization of costs ceases when the software is ready for its intended use. Costs related to maintenance of internal-use software are expensed as incurred.
Below are the amounts of internal-use computer software capitalized within property, equipment and capitalized software and the related amortization expense incurred on all internal-use computer software during the years ended December 31:
Cloud Computing Arrangements
The Company capitalizes implementation costs in cloud computing arrangements, including development costs on third party technology platforms. Such amounts are amortized, when ready for intended use, over the lesser of the term of the hosting arrangement or the useful life of the underlying software.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had the following costs capitalized with respect to cloud computing arrangements on the consolidated balance sheet:
The Company had no cloud computing costs capitalized prior to 2020.
Acquisitions
For acquisitions that meet the definition of a business combination, the Company applies the acquisition method of accounting where assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at fair value at the date of each acquisition. Any excess of the consideration transferred by the Company over the amounts recognized for assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. The Company continues to evaluate acquisitions for a period not to exceed one year after the acquisition date of each transaction to determine whether any additional adjustments are needed to the allocation of the purchase price. The acquiree’s results of operations are included in consolidated results of the Company from the date of the respective acquisition.
All other acquisitions are accounted for as asset acquisitions and the purchase price is allocated to the net assets acquired with no recognition of goodwill. Following the acquisition date, the purchase price is not subsequently adjusted.
The fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed is based on management’s estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management. Fair values are typically determined using a discounted cash flow valuation method, though the Company utilizes alternative valuation methods when deemed appropriate. Significant acquisition valuation assumptions typically include timing and amount of future cash flows, effective income tax rates, discount rates, long-term growth expectations and customer attrition rates.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The Company tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more frequently if facts or circumstances indicate that the goodwill might be impaired. Goodwill is assigned to reporting units, which are one level below the Company’s operating segments. The Company performs goodwill impairment tests at the reporting unit level annually as of October 1. Such impairment tests include comparing the fair value of the respective reporting units with their carrying values, including goodwill. The Company uses both discounted cash flow analyses and comparable company pricing multiples to determine the fair value of its reporting units. Such analyses are corroborated using market analytics. Certain assumptions are used in determining the fair value, including assumptions about future cash flows and terminal values. When appropriate, the Company considers the assumptions that it believes hypothetical marketplace participants would use in estimating future cash flows. In addition, an appropriate discount rate is used, based on the Company’s cost of capital or reporting unit-specific economic factors. When the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a goodwill impairment charge is recorded equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds its fair value, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit.
During our annual goodwill impairment test performed as of October 1, 2020, we determined that the reduced volumes attributable in part to COVID-19, had a significant negative impact on the fair value of the WEX Fleet Europe reporting unit (the 2019 Go Fuel Card acquisition). Based on the carrying value of this reporting unit exceeding its fair value, the Company recorded a $53.4 million goodwill impairment charge during the year ended December 31, 2020. There is $65.8 million remaining goodwill associated with this reporting unit. See Note 9, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, and Note 24, Impairment Charges, for further information regarding the outcome of the Company’s annual goodwill impairment test performed as of October 1, 2020, 2019, and 2018.
Intangible assets that are deemed to have definite lives are generally amortized using a method reflective of the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. If that pattern cannot be reliably determined, the assets are amortized using a straight-line method over their useful lives, which is the period of time that the asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to future cash flows. The Company determines the useful lives of its identifiable intangible
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
assets after considering the specific facts and circumstances related to each intangible asset. The factors that management considers when determining useful lives include the contractual term of agreements, the history of the asset, the Company’s long-term strategy for the use of the asset, any laws or other local regulations which could impact the useful life of the asset and other economic factors, including competition and specific market conditions. The Company performs an evaluation of the remaining useful lives of the definite-lived intangible assets periodically to determine if any change is warranted.
The Company assesses the realizability of intangible assets other than goodwill whenever conditions exist that indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Such conditions may include a reduction in operating cash flow or a dramatic change in the manner in which the asset is intended to be used.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
The Company’s long-lived assets primarily include property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. The carrying values of long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
To test for impairment of long-lived assets, the Company generally uses a probability-weighted estimate of the future undiscounted net cash flows of the assets over their remaining lives to determine if the value of the asset is recoverable. Long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which independent identifiable cash flows are determinable.
An asset impairment is recognized when the carrying value of the asset is not recoverable based on the analysis described above, in which case the asset is written down to its fair value. If the asset does not have a readily determinable market value, a discounted cash flow model may be used to determine the fair value of the asset. In circumstances when an asset does not have separate identifiable cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded when the Company no longer intends to use the asset.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The Company holds mortgage-backed securities, fixed-income mutual funds, money market funds, derivatives (see Note 12, Derivative Instruments) and certain other financial instruments that are carried at fair value. The Company determines fair value based upon quoted prices when available or through the use of alternative approaches, such as model pricing, when market quotes are not readily accessible or available. Various factors are considered in determining the fair value of the Company’s obligations, including: closing exchange or over-the-counter market price quotations; time value and volatility factors underlying options and derivatives; price activity for equivalent instruments; and the Company’s own-credit standing.
These valuation techniques may be based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect the Company’s market assumptions. These two types of inputs create the following fair value hierarchy:
•Level 1 - Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
•Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose inputs are observable or whose significant value drivers are observable.
•Level 3 - Instruments whose significant value drivers are unobservable.
Additionally, the Company holds certain investments that are measured at their NAV as a practical expedient, which are excluded from the fair value hierarchy.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability.
Revenue Recognition
The Company generally accounts for its revenue under Topic 606 or ASC 310, Receivables for rights or obligations associated with financial instruments. The Company generally records revenue net, equal to consideration retained, based upon its conclusion that the Company is the agent in its principal versus agent relationships. The Company evaluated the nature of its
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
promise to the customer and determined that it does not control a promised good or service before transferring that good or service to the customer, but rather arranges for another entity to provide the goods or services.
The vast majority of the Company’s Topic 606 revenue is derived from stand-ready obligations to provide payment processing, transaction processing and SaaS services and support. As such, we view these services as comprising a series of distinct days of service that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the customer. Accordingly, the promise to stand ready is accounted for as a single-series performance obligation. The transaction-based fees are generally calculated based on measures such as (i) percentage of dollar value of volume processed; (ii) number of transactions processed; or (iii) some combination thereof. The Company has entered into agreements with major oil companies, fuel retailers, vehicle maintenance providers, online travel agencies and health partners, which provide services and limited products to the Company’s customers. These agreements specify that a transaction is deemed to be captured when the Company has validated that the transaction has no errors and has accepted and posted the data to the Company’s records. Revenue is recognized based on the value of services transferred to date using a time elapsed output method. See Note 3, Revenue, for a description of the major components of revenue.
The Company enters into contracts with certain large customers or partners that provide for fee rebates tied to performance milestones. Such rebates and incentives are calculated based on estimated performance and the terms of the related business agreements and are typically recorded as a reduction of revenue. Amounts paid to certain partners in our Fleet Solutions and Travel and Corporate Solutions segments are recorded within sales and marketing expense on our consolidated statements of operations.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company recognizes the fair value of all stock-based payments to employees and directors in its financial statements. The Company estimates the fair value of service-based stock option awards on the grant date using a Black-Scholes-Merton valuation model. The Company estimates the fair value of awards granted with market conditions (including market performance-based stock option awards and TSR performance awards) on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The fair value of RSUs, including PBRSUs based on Company performance goals, is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the closing price of the Company’s stock.
Stock-based compensation expense is recorded net of estimated forfeitures over each award’s requisite service period. The Company uses the straight-line methodology for recognizing the expense associated with service-based stock options and RSU grants and a graded-vesting methodology for the expense recognition of market performance-based stock options and PBRSUs.
See Note 23, Stock-Based Compensation, for further information.
Advertising Costs
Advertising and marketing costs are expensed in the period incurred. During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, advertising expense was $17.4 million, $17.9 million and $16.3 million, respectively.
Income Taxes
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date.
The ultimate realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which the associated temporary differences become deductible. A valuation allowance is established for those jurisdictions in which the realization of deferred tax assets is not deemed to be more likely than not.
Accounting guidance prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. This accounting guidance also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in the interim periods, disclosure, and transition. Penalties and interest related to uncertain tax positions are recognized as a component of income tax expense. To the
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
extent penalties and interest are not assessed with respect to uncertain tax positions, amounts accrued are reduced and reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision.
Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of shares of common stock and vested DSUs outstanding during the year. The computation of diluted earnings per share is similar to the computation of basic earnings per share, except that the numerator is increased for tax effected interest expense associated with our Convertible Notes and the denominator is increased for the assumed issuance of common shares issuable on convertible securities under the "if converted" method unless the effect is anti-dilutive. Also, diluted earnings per share includes the assumed exercise of dilutive options and the assumed issuance of unvested RSUs and performance-based awards for which the performance condition has been met as of the date of determination using the treasury stock method unless the effect is anti-dilutive. The treasury stock method assumes that proceeds, including cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and the average unrecognized compensation expense for unvested share-based compensation awards, would be used to purchase the Company’s common stock at the average market price during the period.
The following table summarizes net (loss) income attributable to shareholders and reconciles basic and diluted shares outstanding used in the earnings per share computations:
1 Due to the Company’s net loss position for the year ended December 31, 2020, 0.5 million incremental shares, are excluded from the table above as the effect of including those shares would be anti-dilutive. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, an immaterial number of outstanding share-based compensation awards were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share, as the effect of including these awards would be anti-dilutive.
It is the Company's current intention to settle all conversions of the Convertible Notes in shares of the Company's common stock. Under the "if-converted" method, 1.6 million shares of the Company's common stock associated with the assumed conversion of these Convertible Notes as of the beginning of the period have been excluded from diluted shares outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2020 as the effect of including such shares would be anti-dilutive.
Foreign Currency Movement
The financial statements of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries, where the local currency is the functional currency, are translated to U.S. dollars using year-end spot exchange rates for assets and liabilities, average exchange rates for revenue and expenses and historical exchange rates for equity transactions. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustment is recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
Gains and losses on foreign currency transactions as well as the remeasurement of the Company’s cash, receivable and payable balances that are denominated in foreign currencies, are recorded directly in net foreign currency (loss) gain in the consolidated statements of income. However, gains or losses resulting from intercompany transactions where repayment is not anticipated for the foreseeable future are not recognized in the consolidated statements of income. In these situations, the gains or losses are deferred and included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. In addition, gains and losses associated with the Company’s foreign currency exchange derivatives are recorded in net foreign currency (loss) gain in the consolidated statements of income.
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (“AOCL”)
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, AOCL consisted entirely of unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency translation adjustments pertaining to the net investment in foreign operations.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
2.Recent Accounting Pronouncements
The following table provides a brief description of recent accounting pronouncements that have had, or could have, a material effect on our financial statements:
StandardDescriptionDate/Method of AdoptionEffect on financial statements or other significant matters
Adopted During the Year Ended December 31, 2020
ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments
This standard amends the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the incurred loss methodology for financial instruments, including trade receivables and off-balance sheet credit exposures. The standard requires entities to consider a broader range of information to estimate expected credit losses, including historical experience, current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts that impact the collectability of the reported amount.The Company adopted ASU 2016-13 effective January 1, 2020 using the modified-retrospective approach.The amendments of this new standard were applied through a cumulative-effect adjustment to total stockholders’ equity of $8.8 million, net of a $2.8 million income tax benefit, as of January 1, 2020. This adjustment was driven by the incorporation of economic forecasts into the Company’s expected credit loss reserve methodology. The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2020 are presented under the new standard. Comparative periods presented have not been adjusted. Refer to Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies, for discussion of the Company’s credit loss methodology.
Not Yet Adopted as of December 31, 2020
ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate ReformThis standard provides optional guidance for a limited period of time to ease the potential financial reporting burden in accounting for (or recognizing the effects of) the discontinuation of LIBOR resulting from reference rate reform. The amendments provide optional expedients and exceptions for applying GAAP to contracts and other transactions impacted by reference rate reform. If certain criteria are met, an entity will not be required to remeasure or reassess contracts impacted by reference rate reform.Election is available through December 31, 2022.The Company is currently evaluating the implications of these amendments to its current efforts for reference rate reform implementation and any impact the adoption of this ASU would have on its financial condition and results of operations.
ASU 2020-06, Debt - Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging -Contracts in Entity's Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40)This standard simplifies the accounting for certain financial instruments with characteristics of liabilities and equity, including convertible instruments and contracts in an entity's own equity. Among other changes, this standard removes from GAAP the liability and equity separation model for convertible instruments with a cash conversion feature. Instead, entities will account for a convertible debt instrument wholly as debt unless (1) a convertible debt instrument contains features that require bifurcation as a derivative under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, or (2) a convertible debt instrument was issued at a substantial premium. The standard also requires the application of the if-converted method to calculate the impact of convertible instruments on diluted earnings per share.Effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021 and may be early adopted for the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2020 using a modified retrospective or fully retrospective method of transition.The Company will early adopt this ASU effective January 1, 2021. Adoption will eliminate the bifurcation of the equity component associated with our Convertible Notes, which was originally recorded within equity. Going forward, this equity component will be included as part of the carrying value of the Convertible Notes. Additionally, interest expense is expected to decline approximately $6 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 as result of the adoption of this ASU.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
In accordance with Topic 606, revenue is recognized when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied as defined by the terms of the contract, in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for goods or services provided.
The following tables disaggregate our consolidated revenue:
The vast majority of the above revenue relates to services transferred to the customer over time. Point-in-time revenue recognized was immaterial during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018.
Payment Processing Revenue
Payment processing revenue consists primarily of interchange income. Interchange income is a fee paid by a merchant bank (“merchant”) to the card-issuing bank (generally the Company) in exchange for the Company facilitating and processing transactions with cardholders. Interchange fees are set by the card network. WEX processes transactions through both closed-loop and open-loop networks.
•Fleet Solutions segment interchange income primarily relates to revenue earned on transactions processed through the Company’s proprietary closed-loop fuel networks. In closed-loop fuel network arrangements, written contracts are entered into between the Company and merchants, which determine the interchange fee charged on transactions. The
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Company extends short-term credit to the fleet cardholder and pays the merchant the purchase price for the cardholder’s transaction, less the interchange fees the Company retains. The Company collects the total purchase price from the fleet cardholder. In Europe, interchange income is specifically derived from the difference between the negotiated price of fuel from the supplier and the agreed upon price paid by fleet cardholders.
•Interchange income in our Travel and Corporate Solutions and Health and Employee Benefit Solutions segments relates to revenue earned on transactions processed through open-loop networks. In open-loop network arrangements, there are several intermediaries involved between the merchant and the cardholder and written contracts between all parties involved in the process do not exist. Rather, the transaction is governed by the rates determined by the card network at the point-of-sale. This framework dictates the interchange rate, the risk of loss, dispute procedures and timing of payment. For these transactions, there is an implied contract between the Company and the merchant. In our Travel and Corporate Solutions segment, the Company remits payment to the card network for the purchase price of the cardholder transaction, less the interchange fees the Company earns. The Company collects the total purchase price from the cardholder. In our Health and Employee Benefit Solutions segment, funding of transactions and collections from cardholders is performed by third-party sponsor banks, who remit a portion of the interchange fee to us.
The Company has determined that the merchant is the customer as it relates to interchange income regardless of the type of network through which transactions are processed. The Company’s primary performance obligation to merchants is a stand-ready commitment to provide payment and transaction processing services as the merchant requires, which is satisfied over time in daily increments. Since the timing and quantity of transactions to be processed by us is not determinable, the total consideration is determined to be variable consideration. The variable consideration for our payment and transaction processing service is usage-based and therefore specifically relates to our efforts to satisfy our obligation. The variability is satisfied each day the service is provided to the customer. We directly ascribe variable fees to the distinct day of service to which it relates, and we consider the services performed each day in order to ascribe the appropriate amount of total fees to that day. Therefore, we measure interchange income on a daily basis based on the services that are performed on that day.
In determining the amount of consideration received related to these services, the Company applied the principal-agent guidance in Topic 606 and assessed whether it controls services performed by other intermediaries. Based on this assessment, the Company determined that WEX does not control the services performed by merchant acquirers, card networks and sponsor banks as each of these parties is the primary obligor for their portion of payment and transaction processing services performed. Therefore, interchange income is recognized net of any fees owed to these intermediaries. Conversely, the Company determined that services performed by third-party payment processors are controlled by the Company as it is responsible for directing how the third-party payment processor authorizes and processes transactions. Therefore, such fees paid to third-party payment processors are recorded as service fees within cost of services.
Additionally, the Company enters into contracts with certain large customers or strategic cardholders that provide for fee rebates tied to performance milestones. When such fee rebates constitute consideration payable to a customer or other party that purchases services from the customer, they are considered variable consideration and are recorded as a reduction in payment processing revenue in the same period that related interchange income is recognized. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, such variable consideration totaled $537.7 million, $891.0 million, and $858.9 million respectively. Fee rebates made to certain other partners were determined to be costs to obtain a contract and are recorded as sales and marketing expenses.
Account Servicing Revenue
In our Fleet Solutions segment, account servicing revenue is primarily comprised of monthly fees charged to cardholders based on the number of vehicles serviced. These fees are primarily in return for providing monthly vehicle data reports and are recognized on a monthly basis as the service is provided. The Company also recognizes account servicing revenue related to reporting services on telematics hardware placements and permit sales to our over-the-road customers, both of which are within the scope of Topic 606. Additionally, account servicing revenue includes other fees recognized as revenue when assessed to the cardholder as part of the lending relationship, which are outside the scope of Topic 606.
In our Travel and Corporate Solutions segment, account servicing reflects licensing fees earned for use of our accounts receivable and accounts payable SaaS platforms, all of which is within the scope of Topic 606.
In our Health and Employee Benefit Solutions segment, we recognize account servicing fees for the per-participant per-month fee charged per consumer on our SaaS healthcare technology platform. Customers including health plans, third-party
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
administrators, financial institutions and payroll companies typically enter into three to five-year contracts, which contain significant termination penalties. This revenue is within the scope of Topic 606.
Our Travel and Corporate Solutions and Health and Employee Benefit Solutions segments provide SaaS services and support, which are stand-ready commitments and are satisfied over time in a series of daily increments. Revenue is recognized based on an output method using days elapsed to measure progress as the Company transfers control evenly over each monthly subscription period.
Finance Fee Revenue
The Company earns revenue on overdue accounts, which is recognized when the fees are assessed. The finance fee is calculated using the greater of a minimum charge or a stated late fee rate multiplied by the outstanding balance that is subject to a late fee charge. On occasion, these fees are waived to maintain customer goodwill. The established reserve for such waived amounts is estimated and offset against the late fee revenue recognized. Finance fee revenue also includes amounts earned by the Company’s factoring business, which purchases accounts receivable from third-parties at a discount. This revenue is outside the scope of Topic 606.
Other Revenue
In our Fleet Solutions segment, other revenue primarily consists of transaction processing revenue, other fees charged to the merchants, professional services, including software development projects and other services sold subsequent to the core offerings, and the sales of telematics hardware, all of which are within the scope of Topic 606. Revenue is recognized when control of the services or hardware is transferred to our customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those services. We also recognize fees charged to cardholders in other revenue, which are outside the scope of Topic 606.
In our Travel and Corporate Solutions segment, the majority of other revenue reflects international settlement fees, which is outside the scope of Topic 606 and recognized as the service is performed. In our Health and Employee Benefit Solutions segment, other revenue primarily consists of professional services, which is within the Topic 606, and is recognized as the services are performed, in the amount we expect to receive from these services. Prior to the sale of the WEX Latin America business, other revenue in our Health and Employee Benefit Solutions segment also included the gain on sale of WEX Latin America receivables, which was outside the scope of Topic 606 and is recognized on the sale date of the receivables.
Contract Balances
The majority of the Company’s receivables, which are excluded from the table below, are either due from cardholders who have not been deemed our customer as it relates to interchange income, or from revenues earned outside of the scope of Topic 606. The Company’s contract assets consist of upfront payments made to customers under long-term contracts and are recorded upon payment or when due. The resulting asset is amortized against revenue as the Company performs its obligations under these arrangements. The Company’s contract liabilities consist of customer payments received before the Company has satisfied the associated performance obligations and upfront payments due to the customer.
The following table provides information about these contract balances:
Impairment losses recognized on our contract assets were immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. In the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we recognized revenue of $5.2 million and $7.2 million included in the opening contract liabilities balances, respectively.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Remaining Performance Obligations
The Company’s unsatisfied, or partially unsatisfied performance obligations as of December 31, 2020 represent the remaining minimum monthly fees on a portion of contracts across the lines of business and contractually obligated professional services yet to be provided by the Company. The remaining performance obligations also includes payments to the Company for providing payment processing services and facilitating transactions under certain long-term noncancellable contracts for which the Company has not satisfied its performance obligations. The total remaining performance obligations below is not indicative of the Company’s future revenue, as it relates to an insignificant portion of the Company’s operations.
The following table includes revenue expected to be recognized related to remaining performance obligations at the end of the reporting period.
1 The transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations represents the minimum monthly fees on certain service contracts, which contain substantive termination penalties that require the counterparty to pay the Company for the aggregate remaining minimum monthly fees upon an early termination for convenience.
2 Includes software development projects and other services sold subsequent to the core offerings, to which the customer is contractually obligated.
3 Represents deferred revenue associated with remaining payment processing service obligations.
The Company incurred and expensed costs directly related to completed acquisitions of $97.9 million, $13.0 million and $2.5 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Acquisition costs incurred and expensed during 2020 include financing fees, investment banker success fees and other legal and professional fees incurred in conjunction with the 2020 acquisition. Costs incurred and expensed related to acquisitions in process were immaterial as of December 31, 2020 and $4.8 million as of December 31, 2019. Acquisition-related costs for all years presented are included within general and administrative expenses, except for the financing fees incurred in 2020, that are presented in financing interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
Asset Acquisition
During October 2018, the Company entered into a definitive asset purchase agreement to acquire Chevron’s existing trade accounts receivable and customer portfolio from a third-party for $223.4 million. During 2018, the consideration paid consisted of $162.8 million to acquire the customer portfolio and a deposit of $38.9 million was paid into escrow for a portion of the outstanding accounts receivable at the date of the agreement. The actual amount of accounts receivable purchased from the third party during the second quarter of 2019 was less than the amount deposited in escrow, resulting in the Company receiving the excess funds of approximately $27 million from the escrow agent in January 2020. During the second quarter of 2019, the Company determined that it obtained control of the customer portfolio and accounted for this transaction under the asset acquisition method of accounting. At that time, we allocated approximately $168.0 million of consideration paid to a customer relationship intangible asset and established the accounts receivable at fair value. This customer relationship intangible asset is being amortized over the 13 year term of the Chevron agreement, which has been determined to be the period of anticipated benefit, which began when the Company took possession of the customer portfolio during the second quarter of 2019. Transaction costs related to the acquisition were insignificant and expensed as incurred.
Business Acquisitions
2020 Acquisition/Legal Settlement
On January 24, 2020, the Company entered into a purchase agreement (the "Original Purchase Agreement") to purchase eNett and Optal for an aggregate purchase price comprised of $1.3 billion in cash and 2.0 million shares of the Company’s common stock and subject to certain working capital and other adjustments as described in the purchase agreement. The parties’ obligations to consummate the acquisition were subject to customary closing conditions, including the absence of a
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the Original Purchase Agreement between WEX, eNett and Optal, among others). The Company subsequently concluded that the COVID-19 pandemic and conditions arising in connection with it had a Material Adverse Effect on the businesses, which was disproportionate to the effect on others in the relevant industry. Because of this Material Adverse Effect, WEX formally advised eNett and Optal on May 4, 2020 that it was not required to close the transaction pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement. On May 11, 2020, the shareholders of eNett and Optal each initiated separate legal proceedings in the High Court of Justice of England and Wales in the United Kingdom against the Company seeking a declaration that no Material Adverse Effect had occurred and an order for specific performance of WEX's obligations under the Original Purchase Agreement. From September 21, 2020 through September 29, 2020, a London court held a trial of certain preliminary issues, and handed down its judgement on October 12, 2020. The Company and the claimants each sought permission to appeal certain portions of the Court’s judgment.
On December 15, 2020, the Company entered into a Deed of Settlement (the “Settlement Deed”) between the Company, eNett, Optal and the other parties thereto, providing for, among other things, (i) the dismissal with prejudice of the legal proceedings and appeals described above, (ii) the amendment of the Original Purchase Agreement (as amended by the Settlement Deed, the “Amended Purchase Agreement”) and (iii) the release of all claims capable of arising out of, or in any way connected with or relating to the COVID-19 pandemic, but excluding any of the claims arising under the Amended Purchase Agreement.
The closing of the acquisition occurred concurrent with the execution of the Settlement Deed on December 15, 2020. The Amended Purchase Agreement provided for, among other things, a reduction of the aggregate purchase price for the acquisition to $577.5 million (subject to certain working capital and other adjustments as described in the Amended Purchase Agreement, which resulted in a total cash payment of $615.4 million). The Company purchased these businesses to complement its existing Travel and Corporate Solutions segment and expand its international footprint.
The Company determined the aggregate purchase price represents consideration paid for the businesses acquired and for the settlement of legal proceedings described above. The preliminary fair value of the businesses acquired was estimated to be $415.0 million using a discounted cash flow analysis and guideline transaction method. Since the Company was not able to reliably estimate the fair value of the legal settlement, the residual value of $162.5 million has been allocated to the legal proceedings settlement, which has been included in legal settlement expense in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020.
This acquisition has been accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting which requires the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recognized at their respective fair values on the acquisition date. The table below summarizes the preliminary estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the acquisition date. These preliminary estimates will be revised during the measurement period as third-party valuations on the intangible assets are received and finalized, further information becomes available and additional analyses are performed, and these adjustments could have a material impact on the preliminary purchase price allocation.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The following is a summary of the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired, based on the fair value at the date of acquisition:
(a) Weighted average life - 5 years.
(b) Weighted average life - 2.5 years.
(c) Weighted average life - 6.5 years.
(d) The weighted average life of the $147.3 million of amortizable intangible assets acquired in this business combination is 4.0 years.
Goodwill is calculated as the excess of the consideration transferred over the net assets recognized and represents the anticipated synergies of acquiring the businesses. The majority of the goodwill recognized as a result of the acquisition is not expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Given the timing of the acquisition, the Company utilized a benchmarking approach based on the Company's prior acquisitions and similar industry acquisitions to determine the preliminary fair values for intangible assets. See Note 9, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, for additional information.
Since the acquisition date and through December 31, 2020, eNett and Optal have contributed immaterial total revenues and loss before income taxes.
The pro forma information below gives effect to the acquisition as if it had been completed on January 1, 2019. These pro forma results have been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies, adjustments to reflect amortization associated with intangibles acquired and related income tax results. Additionally, nonrecurring pro-forma adjustments of $162.5 million in legal settlement costs and transaction-related costs incurred in the fourth quarter of 2020 have been reflected in the proforma results for the year ended December 31, 2019. The pro forma financial information is presented for comparative purposes only, based on certain estimates and assumptions, which the Company believes to be reasonable but not necessarily indicative of future results of operations or the results that would have been reported if the acquisitions had been completed on January 1, 2019.
The following represents unaudited pro forma operational results:
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
2019 Business Acquisitions
As of December 31, 2020, the purchase accounting is final for our 2019 business acquisitions. No adjustments to the purchase accounting were made during the year ended December 31, 2020.
Discovery Benefits
On March 5, 2019, the Company acquired Discovery Benefits, an employee benefits administrator, for a total purchase price of $526.1 million, of which $50.0 million was paid during the fourth quarter of 2019. The acquisition was primarily funded with cash and through borrowings under the 2016 Credit Agreement. The seller of Discovery Benefits obtained a 4.9 percent equity interest in the newly formed parent company of WEX Health and Discovery Benefits, which constitutes the U.S. Health business. The fair value of the equity interest was determined to be $100.0 million on the acquisition date. See Note 20, Redeemable Non-Controlling Interest, for further information.
The purpose of this acquisition was to obtain the comprehensive suite of products and services for our partners and customers and to open go-to-market channels to include consulting firms and brokers in our Health and Employee Benefit Solutions segment. This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination, resulting in the recording of goodwill. The majority of the associated goodwill is deductible for tax purposes.
The following is a summary of the final allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired, based on the fair value at the date of acquisition:
(a) Weighted average life - 7.3 years.
(b) Weighted average life - 5.4 years.
(c) Weighted average life - 7.3 years.
(d) The weighted average life of the $266.3 million of amortizable intangible assets acquired in this business combination is 7.0 years.
From the acquisition date to December 31, 2019, Discovery Benefits contributed $94.7 million in total revenues and income before income taxes of $0.3 million.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Noventis
On January 24, 2019, the Company acquired Noventis, a long-time customer and electronic payments network focused on optimizing payment delivery for bills and invoices to commercial entities, for $338.7 million, which was primarily funded with cash and through borrowings under the 2016 Credit Agreement. Excluded from the consideration is $5.5 million paid to certain Noventis shareholders who held unvested option awards at the acquisition date. The modification of these awards to accelerate the vesting resulted in the Company recording this expense as general and administrative expense on our consolidated income statement. The Company purchased Noventis to expand our reach as a corporate payments supplier and provide more channels to billing aggregators and financial institutions in our Travel and Corporate Solutions segment. This acquisition was accounted for as a business combination, resulting in the recording of goodwill. The goodwill associated with this acquisition is not deductible for tax purposes.
The following is a summary of the final allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired, based on the fair value at the date of acquisition:
(a) Weighted average life - 8.3 years.
(b) Weighted average life - 2.9 years.
(c) The weighted average life of the $115.9 million of amortizable intangible assets acquired in this business combination is 7.6 years.
From the acquisition date to December 31, 2019, Noventis contributed $43.8 million in total revenues and income before income taxes of $8.2 million.
Pavestone Capital, LLC
On February 14, 2019, the Company acquired Pavestone Capital, a recourse factoring company that provides working capital to businesses, for a purchase price of $28.0 million, net of cash acquired. This acquisition, which was funded with cash, has been accounted for as a business combination. The Company purchased Pavestone Capital to complement its existing factoring business. As a result, the purchase price is primarily allocated to goodwill, accounts receivable and customer relationships in amounts of $9.5 million, $14.9 million and $3.9 million, respectively. The goodwill associated with this acquisition is deductible for tax purposes. The customer relationships intangible asset has a weighted-average amortization period of 6.5 years.
From the acquisition date to December 31, 2019, Pavestone Capital revenues and income before income taxes, which are recorded in our Fleet Solutions segment, were not material to Company operations. No pro forma or current information has been included in these financial statements as the operations of Pavestone Capital for the period that they were not part of the Company are not material to the Company’s revenues, net income and earnings per share.
Go Fuel Card
On July 1, 2019, the Company acquired Go Fuel Card, a European fuel card business, for a total purchase price of €235.0 million (equivalent of $266.0 million on date of purchase). This acquisition, which was funded with cash, was accounted for as a business combination. The purpose of the acquisition was to strengthen our position in the European market, grow our existing customer base and reduce our sensitivity to retail fuel prices, resulting in the recording of goodwill. The goodwill associated with the acquisition of Go Fuel Card is deductible for tax purposes.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The following is a summary of the final allocation of the purchase price to the assets and liabilities acquired, based on the fair value at the date of acquisition:
(a) Weighted average life - 10.1 years.
(b) Weighted average life - 5.0 years.
(c) Weighted average life - 1.0 year.
(d) The weighted average life of the $147.3 million of amortizable intangible assets acquired in this business combination is 8.9 years.
From the acquisition date to December 31, 2019, Go Fuel Card contributed $10.5 million in total revenues and loss before income taxes of $9.1 million. No pro forma information has been included in these financial statements as the operations of Go Fuel Card for the period that they were not part of the Company are not material to the Company’s revenues, net income and earnings per share.
During the Company's annual goodwill assessment completed as of October 1, 2020, management determined that the carrying value of this reporting unit exceeded its fair value and the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $53.4 million, reducing the Go Fuel Card goodwill to $65.8 million. See Note 9, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, for further information.
Pro Forma Supplemental Information (Discovery Benefits and Noventis)
The pro forma information below gives effect to the Discovery Benefits and Noventis acquisitions as if they had been completed on January 1, 2018. These pro forma results have been calculated after applying the Company’s accounting policies, adjustments to reflect amortization associated with intangibles acquired and interest expense associated with the incremental borrowings under the 2016 Credit Agreement used to fund the acquisitions and related income tax results. The pro forma financial information is presented for comparative purposes only, based on certain estimates and assumptions, which the Company believes to be reasonable but not necessarily indicative of future results of operations or the results that would have been reported if the acquisitions had been completed on January 1, 2018.
The following represents unaudited pro forma operational results:
On September 30, 2020, the Company sold its wholly-owned subsidiary UNIK S.A, (the "WEX Latin America" business). The operations of UNIK S.A., were included in the Health and Employee Benefit Solutions and Travel and Corporate Solutions segments through the date of sale. The Company does not view this sale of subsidiary as a strategic shift in its operations and therefore it did not meet the criteria of discontinued operations. Under the conditions of the sale agreement, the Company was required to make a payment to the buyer, which has been reflected as fair value of consideration transferred to
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
the buyer in the table below. As part of the divestiture, the Company entered into a transition services agreement with the buyer of up to six months post-closing related to various operational and support services. The Company believes the transition services agreement is of nominal value. The Company wrote-off the associated assets and liabilities of this entity as of the date of sale and recorded a pre-tax loss on sale of subsidiary of $46.4 million, which has been reflected in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020. The pre-tax loss related to the sale of this subsidiary is not deductible for income tax purposes.
The following summarizes the loss on sale of subsidiary:
6.Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable consists of amounts billed to and due from customers across a wide range of industries and other third parties. The Company often extends short-term credit to cardholders and pays the merchant for the purchase price, less the fees it retains and records as revenue. The Company subsequently collects the total purchase price from the cardholder. In general, the Company’s trade receivables provide for payment terms of 30 days or less. Receivables not paid in full by payment due dates as stated within the terms of the agreement are generally considered past due and subject to late fees and interest based upon the outstanding receivables balance. The Company discontinues late fee and interest income accruals on outstanding receivables once customers are 90 and 120 days past the invoice due date, respectively. Payments received subsequent to discontinuing late fee and interest income accruals are first applied to outstanding late fees and interest, and the Company resumes accruing interest and late fee income as earned on future receivables balances.
The Company extends revolving credit to certain small fleets. These accounts are also subject to late fees and balances that are not paid in full are subject to interest charges based on the revolving balance. The Company had approximately $60.2 million and $62.4 million in receivables with revolving credit balances as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Allowance for Accounts Receivable
Receivables are generally written off when they are 180 days past due or upon declaration of bankruptcy of the customer, subject to local regulatory restrictions. The allowance for accounts receivable consists of reserves for both credit and fraud losses. The reserve for credit losses is primarily calculated using historical loss-rates applied at the portfolio level and specific customer balance collectability based on a review of past due accounts receivable balances, changes in payment patterns, and other customer-specific available information. Management further takes into account qualitative factors, such as leading economic and market indicator trends, to the extent they deviate from historical loss-rate trends when determining the need for additional qualitative reserves. The reserve for fraud losses is determined by monitoring pending fraud cases, customer-identified fraudulent activity and unconfirmed suspicious activity in order to make judgments as to probable fraud losses.
Accounts receivable are evaluated for impairment on a pooling basis based on similar risk characteristics including industry of the borrower, historical or expected credit loss patterns, risk ratings or classification, and geographic location. See Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, for more information.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The following tables present changes in the accounts receivable allowances by portfolio segment:
1 The provision is comprised of estimated credit losses based on the Company’s loss-rate experience and effective January 1, 2020, also includes adjustments required for forecasted credit loss information. The provision for credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2020, includes estimates of expected credit losses over the contractual life of receivables as the markets in which the Company operates are experiencing a decline, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19. The provision for credit losses reported within this table also includes the provision for fraud losses.
2 Consists primarily of charges to other accounts. The Company earns revenue by assessing monthly finance fees on accounts with overdue balances. These fees are recognized as revenue at the time the fees are assessed. The finance fee is calculated using the greater of a minimum charge or a stated late fee rate multiplied by the outstanding balance that is subject to a late fee charge. On occasion, these fees are waived to maintain relationship goodwill. Charges to other accounts represents the offset against the late fee revenue recognized when the Company establishes a reserve for such waived amounts.
3 For the year ended December 31, 2020, the majority of the Travel and Corporate Solutions segment charge-offs is associated with the sale of the WEX Latin America business. Refer to Note 5, Sale of Subsidiary, for further information.
Concentration of Credit Risk
The receivables portfolio consists of a large group of homogeneous smaller balances across a wide range of industries, which are collectively evaluated for impairment. No one customer receivable balance represented 10 percent or more of the outstanding receivables balance at December 31, 2020 or 2019. The following table presents the outstanding balance of trade accounts receivable that are less than 30 and 60 days past due, shown in each case as a percentage of total trade accounts receivable:
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
7.Investment Securities
The Company’s investment securities as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, are presented below:
(a) The Company’s techniques used to measure the fair value of its investments are discussed in Note 19, Fair Value.
(b) The Company’s investment securities are not deemed available for current operations and have been classified as non-current on the consolidated balance sheets.
(c)Excludes $9.6 million and $8.0 million in equity securities designated as trading as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. See Note 18, Employee Benefit Plans, for additional information.
The Company reviews its investments to identify and evaluate indications of possible impairment. Factors considered in determining whether a loss is temporary include the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than the cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and the Company’s intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. Substantially all of the Company’s fixed income securities are rated investment grade or better. The Company’s fixed-income mutual fund and certain other insignificant fixed income security positions have been in an unrealized loss position for greater than 12 months as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. The amount by which these investment securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position is insignificant. The Company’s management has determined that these gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2020 and 2019 are temporary in nature.
The Company had insignificant maturities of investment securities during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The contractual maturity dates of the Company’s investment securities are as follows:
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
8.Property, Equipment and Capitalized Software, Net
Property, equipment and capitalized software, net consist of the following:
Depreciation expense was $90.8 million, $77.7 million and $61.6 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
9.Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
The changes in goodwill during the period January 1 to December 31, 2020 were as follows:
1 During the Company's annual goodwill assessment completed as of October 1, 2020, management determined that the reduced volumes attributable in part to COVID-19, had a significant negative impact on the fair value of the WEX Fleet Europe reporting unit (the 2019 Go Fuel Card acquisition). The fair value of the reporting unit was calculated using a combination of the income and market approaches, utilizing significant judgments including estimated cash flows and market prices from comparable businesses. As the carrying value of this reporting unit exceeded its fair value, the Company recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $53.4 million to the Fleet Solutions segment. There is $65.8 million remaining goodwill associated with this reporting unit.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The changes in goodwill during the period January 1 to December 31, 2019 were as follows:
Other Intangible Assets
Other intangible assets consist of the following:
During the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, amortization expense was $171.1 million, $159.4 million and $138.2 million, respectively. The following table presents the estimated amortization expense related to the definite-lived intangible assets listed above for each of the next five fiscal years:
Accounts payable consists of:
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
WEX Bank’s regulatory status enables it to raise capital to fund the Company’s working capital requirements by issuing deposits, subject to FDIC rules governing minimum financial ratios. See Note 26, Supplementary Regulatory Capital Disclosure, for further information concerning these FDIC requirements.
WEX Bank accepts its deposits through: (i) certain customers as required collateral for credit that has been extended (“customer deposits”) and (ii) contractual arrangements with brokerage firms for both certificate of deposit and brokered money market deposit products. Customer deposits are generally non-interest bearing, certificates of deposit are issued at fixed rates and brokered money market deposits are issued at variable rates based on LIBOR or the Federal Funds rate.
The following table presents the composition of deposits, which are classified as short-term or long-term based on their contractual maturities:
1 As of December 31, 2020, all certificates of deposit and brokered money market deposits were in denominations of $250 thousand or less, corresponding to FDIC deposit insurance limits.
2 Original maturities range from 1 year to 5 years, with interest rates ranging from 1.35 percent to 3.52 percent as of December 31, 2020. At December 31, 2019, original maturities ranged from 4 months to 5 years with interest rates ranging from 1.80 percent to 3.52 percent.
In accordance with regulatory requirements, WEX Bank maintains reserves against a portion of its outstanding customer deposits by keeping balances with the Federal Reserve Bank. There was no required reserve at December 31, 2020, due to temporarily relaxed Federal Reserve requirements enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The required reserve was $24.9 million at December 31, 2019.
The following table presents the average interest rates for deposits and interest-bearing brokered money market deposits:
Sources of Funds
ICS Purchases
From time to time, WEX Bank utilizes alternative funding sources such as Promontory Interfinancial Network, LLC’s ICS service, which provides for one-way buy transactions among banks for the purposes of purchasing cost-effective variable-rate funding without collateralization. WEX Bank may purchase brokered money market demand accounts and demand deposit accounts in amounts not to exceed $125.0 million through this service. There were no outstanding balances for ICS purchases at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The Company is exposed to certain market risks relating to its ongoing business operations. From time to time, the Company enters into derivative instrument arrangements to manage various risks including interest rate risk.
As of December 31, 2019, the Company had seven interest rate swap contracts in effect with a collective notional amount at inception of $1.5 billion, with maturity dates from December 31, 2020 to March 12, 2023, at interest rates between 1.108 percent and 2.425 percent. During the second quarter of 2020, the Company amended and extended the terms of five of its interest rate swaps with a collective notional amount of $935.0 million. These amendments merged two of the previously existing interest rate swap agreements into one, reduced the effective fixed interest rates payable and extended the maturity date of each previously existing agreement by a period of one year. As of December 31, 2020, outstanding interest rate swap contracts are intended to fix the future interest payments associated with $1.4 billion of the $2.3 billion of outstanding borrowings under the Company’s 2016 Credit Agreement.
The following table presents relevant information for the interest rate swap agreements outstanding during 2020:
1 Not amended or extended.
2 Result of the merging of tranches F and G, which were disclosed within the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019.
The following table presents information on the location and amounts of interest rate swap gains and losses:
Derivative instruments and their related gains and losses are reported within cash flows from operating activities within the consolidated statements of cash flows. See Note 19, Fair Value, for more information regarding the valuation of the Company’s interest rate swaps.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
WEX Europe Services Accounts Receivable Factoring
Under a factoring arrangement between WEX Europe Services and an unrelated third-party financial institution, the Company sells customer accounts receivable balances without recourse to the extent that the customer balances are maintained at or below the credit limit established by the buyer. If customer receivable balances exceed the buyer’s credit limit, the Company maintains the risk of default. The Company obtained a true-sale opinion from an independent attorney, which states that the factoring agreement provides legal isolation upon WEX Europe Services bankruptcy or receivership under local law and creates a sale of receivables for amounts transferred both below and above the established credit limits. The Company continues to service these receivables post-transfer with no participating interest. As such, transfers under this arrangement are treated as sales and are accounted for as reductions in trade accounts receivable because effective control of the receivables is transferred to the buyer. The Company sold $452.2 million and $630.3 million of accounts receivable under this arrangement during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Proceeds received, which are recorded net of applicable costs, including interest and commissions, are recorded in operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The loss on factoring was $2.4 million and $3.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and was recorded within cost of services in the consolidated statements of income. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the amount of outstanding transferred receivables in excess of the established credit limit was immaterial. Charge-backs on balances in excess of the credit limit during the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were insignificant.
WEX Bank Accounts Receivable Factoring
In August 2018, WEX Bank entered into a factoring agreement with an unrelated third-party financial institution to sell certain of its trade accounts receivable under non-recourse transactions. The Company obtained a true-sale opinion from an independent attorney, which states that the factoring agreement provides legal isolation upon WEX Bank bankruptcy or receivership under local law. WEX Bank continues to service the receivables post-transfer with no participating interest. As such, transfers under this arrangement are treated as a sale and are accounted for as a reduction in trade accounts receivable because effective control of the receivables is transferred to the buyer. The Company sold $4.1 billion and $14.8 billion of trade accounts receivable under this arrangement during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Proceeds received, which are reported net of a negotiated discount rate, are recorded in operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The loss on factoring, which is recorded within cost of services in the consolidated statements of operations, was insignificant and $3.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
WEX Latin America Securitization of Receivables
Prior to the sale of WEX Latin America on September 30, 2020, the Company transferred certain unsecured receivables associated with its salary advance payment card product to an investment fund in which WEX Latin America held a non-controlling equity interest, and that is managed by an unrelated third-party. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company received an insignificant distribution from the investment fund and did not make equity contributions to the investment fund during the year ended December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company’s equity contributions to the investment fund totaled $2.8 million. The securitization arrangement met the derecognition conditions under GAAP and transfers beginning July 1, 2018 under this arrangement were treated as sales and accounted for as a reduction of trade receivables. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company recognized operating interest expense of $4.4 million under this financing arrangement. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company recognized a gain on sale of $6.5 million and $16.1 million, respectively. The gain recognized consists of the difference between the sales price and the carrying value of the receivables, and is recorded within other revenue. Cash proceeds from the transfer of these receivables are recorded within operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Income before income taxes consisted of the following:
Income taxes from continuing operations consisted of the following for the years ended December 31:
Undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries of the Company amounted to $58.5 million and $77.4 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company had historically asserted that the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries were considered indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. The Company reevaluated its historic indefinite reinvestment assertion and determined that any historical undistributed earnings as well as the future earnings for WEX Australia are no longer considered to be indefinitely reinvested. The Company continues to maintain its indefinite reinvestment assertion for its remaining foreign subsidiaries. The deferred tax liability related to the foreign and state tax costs associated with this change in assertion was immaterial. Upon distribution of the foreign subsidiaries earnings in which the Company continues to assert indefinite reinvestment, the Company would be subject to withholding taxes payable to foreign countries, where applicable, but would generally have no further federal income tax liability.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The reconciliation between the income tax computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory rate and the reported effective tax rate on income from continuing operations is as follows:
We recorded an income tax benefit for 2020 as compared to an income tax provision for 2019. The Company's effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2020 was impacted by no income tax benefit being recorded for i) operating losses generated by WEX Latin America during the current year through the date of sale, ii) the loss on sale of WEX Latin America, and iii) the legal settlement. These losses were included as part of the current year loss and have been determined to be either non-deductible for income tax purposes or required a valuation allowance.
A portion of the legal settlement resulted in a foreign capital loss, which the Company concluded was not more likely than not to be realized and accordingly recorded a full valuation allowance against it. The remaining portion of the legal settlement was determined to be non-deductible for income tax purposes.
Purchase accounting adjustments relate to the additional tax basis and attributes for Discovery Benefits and Noventis recognized in the income tax (benefit) provision as the respective measurement periods had ended.
The lower effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2019 relative to 2018 was primarily due to the jurisdictional earnings mix.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The tax effects of temporary differences in the recognition of income and expense for tax and financial reporting purposes that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented below:
Net deferred tax (liabilities) assets by jurisdiction are as follows:
The Company had approximately $511.5 million of post apportionment state, $19.8 million of federal and $76.4 million of foreign net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2020 and approximately $608.7 million of post apportionment state, $31.3 million of federal and $58.6 million of foreign net operating loss carryforwards at December 31, 2019. The U.S. losses expire at various times through 2040. Foreign losses in Australia and the United Kingdom have indefinite carryforward periods.
At December 31, 2020, the Company’s valuation allowance primarily pertains to net deferred tax assets for certain states and foreign capital losses arising from a portion of the legal settlement. In each case, the Company has determined it is not more likely than not that the benefits will be utilized. During 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded tax expense of $40.6 million and $6.6 million, respectively, for net increases to the valuation allowance. The increase in the valuation allowance in 2020 was primarily related to the foreign capital losses arising from a portion of the legal settlement and operating losses generated from WEX Latin America during the current year through the date of sale. WEX Latin America’s deferred tax assets and related valuation allowance are not reflected in the tables above, since the Company sold WEX Latin America on September 30, 2020. The majority of the increase in valuation allowance in 2019 was related to state net operating losses driven from the Company’s parent company separate state filings.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
At December 31, 2020, the Company had $4.1 million of unrecognized tax benefits, net of federal income tax benefit, of which $3.6 million would decrease our effective tax rate if fully recognized. The Company does not expect any changes to the unrecognized tax benefits within the next twelve months as a result of settlements of certain examinations or expiration of statutes of limitations. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. The total amounts of interest and penalties were not material for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, and as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had no material amounts accrued for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits.
A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest and penalties is as follows:
The Company’s primary tax jurisdictions are the United States, Australia and the United Kingdom. The Company or one of its subsidiaries files income tax returns in the United States federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions, where required. In the normal course of business, the Company is no longer subject to income tax examination after the Internal Revenue Service statute of limitations of three years. The Internal Revenue Service is currently examining the Company’s U.S. federal income tax returns for 2013 through 2015. The Company concluded the appeals process with the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the 2010 through 2012 audits with no additional tax impact to the Company. At December 31, 2020, U.S. state tax returns were no longer subject to tax examination for years prior to 2014. The tax years remaining open for income tax audits in the United Kingdom are 2019 and 2020, while the tax years open for audit in Australia are 2016 through 2020.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The Company has non-cancelable operating lease arrangements for its office space and equipment that expire at various dates through 2035. In addition, the Company rents office equipment under agreements that may be canceled anytime.
The following table presents supplemental balance sheet information related to our operating leases:
The following table presents the weighted average remaining lease term and discount rate:
Maturities of our operating lease liabilities are as follows:
Leases with an initial term of twelve months or less are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheet. Short-term lease payments are recognized on a straight-line basis and variable short-term lease payments are recognized in the period in which the obligation is incurred. We recognized $18.2 million, $18.3 million, and $15.7 million of operating lease expense during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which includes these immaterial short-term leases and variable lease costs as well as lease expense related to equipment and vehicles. These amounts are classified as general and administrative expenses on our consolidated statements of income.
The following table presents supplemental cash flow and other information related to our leases:
(a) Includes non-cash transactions resulting in adjustments to the lease liability or ROU asset due to modification, impairment or other reassessment events.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The following table summarizes the Company’s total outstanding debt by type:
1 See Note 19, Fair Value, for more information regarding the Company’s 2016 Credit Agreement, Notes and Convertible Notes.
The following table summarizes the Company’s total outstanding debt by balance sheet classification:
1 Collateral for lease agreements, virtual card and fuel payment processing activity at the Company’s foreign subsidiaries.
2 Contingent on maintaining compliance with the financial covenants as defined in the Company’s 2016 Credit Agreement.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
2016 Credit Agreement
On July 1, 2016, the Company entered into a credit agreement by and among the Company and certain of its subsidiaries from time to time party thereto, as borrowers, WEX Card Holding Australia Pty Ltd., as specified designated borrower, Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent, swing line lender and letter of credit issuer and the lenders from time to time party thereto (the “2016 Credit Agreement”). As of December 31, 2020, the 2016 Credit Agreement, as amended through that date, provided for a senior secured tranche A term loan facility in an original principal amount of $1,030.0 million (the “Tranche A Term Loan”), a senior secured tranche B term loan facility in an original principal amount of $1,485.0 million (the “Tranche B Term Loan” and together with the Tranche A Term Loan, the “Term Loans”), and an $870.0 million secured revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), with a $250.0 million sublimit for letters of credit and $20.0 million sublimit for swingline loans. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had an outstanding principal amount of $873.8 million on the Tranche A Term Loan, an outstanding principal amount of $1.4 billion on the Tranche B Term Loan and outstanding letters of credit of $51.6 million drawn against the Revolving Credit Facility.
As of December 31, 2020, the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loans bear interest at variable rates determined by using (a) a variable reference rate, selected by the Company, if applicable, from a prescribed set of variable reference rates including (x) the Eurocurrency Rate (as defined in the 2016 Credit Agreement), or (y) the highest of (1) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50%, (2) the rate of interest in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America, N.A. as its “prime rate”, and (3) the Eurocurrency Rate plus 1.00% (the “Base Rate”), plus (b) an applicable margin. The applicable margin with respect to the Revolving Credit Facility and Tranche A Term Loan, is determined based on the Company’s Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2016 Credit Agreement). The applicable margin with respect to the Tranche B Term Loan is equal to 1.25 percent for loans accruing interest at the Base Rate and 2.25 percent for loans accruing interest at the Eurocurrency Rate. Starting in June 2020, revolving credit facility borrowings were subject to a 75 basis point LIBOR floor.
As of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, amounts outstanding under the 2016 Credit Agreement bore a weighted average effective interest rate of 2.3 percent and 4.0 percent per annum, respectively. The Company maintains interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate risk associated with its outstanding variable-interest rate borrowings under the 2016 Credit Agreement. See Note 12, Derivative Instruments, for further discussion. In addition, the Company has agreed to pay a quarterly commitment fee at a rate per annum ranging from 0.30% to 0.50% of the daily unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility (which was 0.40% at December 31, 2020) determined based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio.
The Revolving Credit Facility and the Tranche A Term Loan mature, and the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility will terminate, on July 1, 2023. The Tranche B Term Loan matures on May 17, 2026. The Tranche A Term Loan and the Tranche B Term Loan require, prior to maturity, scheduled quarterly payments of $12.5 million and $3.7 million, respectively. The 2016 Credit Agreement also requires the Term Loans to be prepaid with the net cash proceeds from certain debt incurrences or issuances and asset dispositions, subject to certain exceptions, thresholds and reinvestment rights. The 2016 Credit Agreement also requires the Tranche B Term Loan to be annually prepaid with a variable percentage of the Company's Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the 2016 Credit Agreement), ranging from zero% to 50% determined based on the Company's Consolidated Leverage Ratio. As of December 31, 2020, this prepayment percentage was 25%. The Company may voluntarily prepay outstanding loans from time to time, subject to certain conditions, without premium or penalty other than customary “breakage” costs.
The obligations of the borrowers under the 2016 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the Company and certain direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of the Company and the obligations of foreign borrowers under the Revolving Credit Facility are guaranteed by certain direct and indirect foreign subsidiaries of the Company, subject to certain exceptions. Under the 2016 Credit Agreement, the Company has granted a security interest in substantially all of the assets of the Company and the guarantors, subject to certain exceptions including, without limitation, the assets of WEX Bank and certain foreign subsidiaries.
The 2016 Credit Agreement, as amended, contains customary representations and warranties, as well as affirmative and negative covenants, as further described under the following “Debt Covenants” heading.
See Note 26, Supplementary Regulatory Capital Disclosure, for further discussion.
Notes Outstanding
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had $400.0 million of 4.75 percent fixed-rate senior notes (the “Notes”) outstanding, which will mature on February 1, 2023. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears on February 1 and August 1 of each year. The Company may redeem the Notes with no premium due upon redemption. As discussed in Note 28,
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Subsequent Events, the Company delivered a notice of redemption to the holders of the Notes, calling for redemption on March 15, 2021.
The Notes are guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of the Company’s restricted subsidiaries and each of the Company’s regulated subsidiaries that guaranteed the Company’s obligations under the 2016 Credit Agreement. WEX Bank, is not a guarantor and is not subject to many of the restrictive covenants in the indenture governing the Notes. The Notes and guarantees described above are general senior secured obligations ranking equally with the Company’s existing and future senior debt, senior in right of payment to all of the Company’s subordinated debt, and effectively equal in lien priority to the Company’s 2016 Credit Agreement. In addition, the Notes and the guarantees are structurally subordinated to all liabilities of the Company’s subsidiaries that are not guarantors, including WEX Bank.
Convertible Notes
Pursuant to a purchase agreement dated June 29, 2020, on July 1, 2020, the Company closed on a private placement with an affiliate of Warburg Pincus LLC (together with its affiliate, “Warburg Pincus”), pursuant to which the Company issued $310.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the Convertible Notes due 2027 (the “Convertible Notes”) and 577,254 shares of the Company's common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $389.2 million, of which $90.0 million constituted the purchase price for the shares, reflecting a purchase price of $155.91 per share.
The issuance of the Convertible Notes provided the Company with net proceeds of approximately $299.2 million after original issue discount. The Convertible Notes have a seven-year term and mature on July 15, 2027, unless earlier converted, repurchased or redeemed. Interest on the Convertible Notes is calculated at a fixed rate of 6.5% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears on January 15 and July 15 of each year, with the first interest payment due January 15, 2021. At the Company's option, interest is either payable in cash, through accretion to the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, or a combination of cash and accretion.
The Convertible Notes may be converted at the option of the holders at any time prior to maturity, or earlier redemption or repurchase of the Convertible Notes, based upon an initial conversion price of $200.00 per share of common stock. The Company may settle conversions of Convertible Notes, at its election, in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination thereof. The initial conversion price is subject to adjustments customary for convertible debt securities and a weighted average adjustment in the event of issuances of equity and equity linked securities by the Company at prices below the then applicable conversion price for the Convertible Notes or the then market price of the Company’s common stock, subject to certain exceptions, including exceptions with respect to underwritten offerings, Rule 144A offerings, private placements at discounts not exceeding a specified amount, issuances as acquisition consideration and equity compensation related issuances.
The Company will have the right, at any time after July 1, 2023, to redeem the Convertible Notes in whole or in part if the closing price of WEX's common stock is at least 200% of the conversion price of the Convertible Notes for 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) out of any 30 consecutive trading day period prior to the time the Company delivers a redemption notice, (including at least one of the five trading days immediately preceding the last day of such 30 trading day period), subject to the right of holders of the Convertible Notes to convert its Convertible Notes prior to the redemption date.
In the event of certain fundamental change transactions, including certain change of control transactions and delisting events involving the Company, holders of the Convertible Notes will have the right to require the Company to repurchase its Convertible Notes at 105% of the principal amount of the Convertible Notes, plus the present value of future interest payments through the date of maturity. No such repurchase occurred during the year ended December 31, 2020.
The $389.2 million of proceeds from this private placement was allocated on a relative fair value basis, with $94.0 million allocated to the sale of the Company's common stock and $295.2 million to the Convertible Notes. As the Convertible Notes permit the Company to settle the conversion in cash, pursuant to ASC 470-20, the proceeds attributed to the Convertible Notes are allocated between a liability and equity component. The carrying amount of the liability component of the Convertible Notes was calculated by measuring the fair value of a hypothetical debt instrument with a similar tenor without a conversion feature. The fair value was determined utilizing a combination of a binomial lattice-based model and a discounted cash flow model that includes assumptions such as implied credit spread, expected volatility, and the risk-free rate for notes with a similar term. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the total proceeds allocated to the Convertible Notes.
Applicable transaction costs of $4.0 million have been allocated between the Convertible Notes and shares of the Company's common stock sold in the transaction based on relative fair value and further allocated between the liability and
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
equity component of the Convertible Notes consistent with the initial allocation resulting in $2.5 million classified as debt issuance costs capitalized as a direct reduction to the face value of the Convertible Notes and $1.5 million deducted from the amounts recorded within stockholders' equity. The debt discount and debt issuance costs will be amortized to interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the seven-year contractual life of the Convertible Notes. The effective interest rate on the liability component of the Convertible Notes was 11.2% at the date of loan origination.
Based on this, the Convertible Notes were recorded at a debt discount with an initial carrying value of $237.5 million, with the residual $54.7 million recognized within additional paid-in capital on the Company's consolidated balance sheet. This equity component will not be remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification. Based on the closing price of the Company’s common stock as of December 31, 2020, the "if-converted" value of the Convertible Notes exceeds its principal amount by $5.5 million.
The Convertible Notes consist of the following:
1 Recorded within long-term debt, net on our consolidated balance sheet.
2 Represents the proceeds allocated to the conversion option, or debt discount, recorded within additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheet. Additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheet is further reduced by $0.6 million of issuance costs and $13.6 million in taxes associated with the equity component.
The following table sets forth total interest expense recognized for the Convertible Notes:
Debt Issuance Costs
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company completed four amendments (the Eighth, Ninth, Tenth and Eleventh Amendments) to the 2016 Credit Agreement, largely in connection with its acquisition of eNett and Optal. The Eighth Amendment was superseded by the Ninth Amendment (other than with respect to the consent fees payable in connection with the Eighth Amendment) and the Eleventh Amendment modified terms that were only applicable if the Company was required to finance the acquisition of eNett and Optal. However, the Ninth Amendment, among other things, amended certain provisions of the 2016 Credit Agreement relating to financial maintenance covenants and pricing terms and the Tenth Amendment increased the commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility by $50.0 million. The Company accounted for the Ninth, Tenth and Eleventh Amendments as debt modifications. As part of these transactions, the Company incurred and expensed an insignificant amount of third party costs, which are classified within general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of operations. In association with the Ninth Amendment, the Company incurred and capitalized $4.3 million of lender fees. Consent fees incurred pursuant to the Eighth Amendment and payable upon a consummation of the eNett and Optal acquisition of $2.9 million were capitalized during December 2020.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company entered into the Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Amendments to the 2016 Credit Agreement. The Company accounted for the Fifth Amendment to the 2016 Credit Agreement as a debt modification. The Company accounted for the Sixth Amendment to the 2016 Credit Agreement, which was completed in 2019, as both a debt modification and a partial debt extinguishment, and consequently recorded a loss on extinguishment of debt of $1.3 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs during 2019. The Company incurred and expensed $10.6 million of third party costs associated with the Fifth and Sixth Amendments, which are classified within general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income during 2019. We expensed as incurred an insignificant amount of costs resulting from the Seventh Amendment to the 2016 Credit Agreement. During 2019, the Company also
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
incurred and capitalized lender costs of $3.4 million associated with the Fifth Amendment and a debt discount of $11.0 million associated with the Sixth Amendment.
During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company entered into the Third and Fourth Amendments to the 2016 Credit Agreement. The Third Amendment was accounted for as both a debt modification and partial debt extinguishment, which caused us to record a loss on extinguishment of debt of $1.1 million related to the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs, while the Fourth Amendment was accounted for as a debt modification. The Company incurred general and administrative expenses of $3.8 million related to third-party costs associated with the Third and Fourth Amendments. The loss on extinguishment and third-party costs are reflected as financing interest expense and general and administrative expenses, respectively. In addition, the Company incurred and capitalized $5.8 million of new debt issuance costs related to the Third and Fourth Amendments.
Debt issuance costs incurred and capitalized in conjunction with the 2016 Credit Agreement and its amendments are being amortized into interest expense over the remaining term of the Term Loans and Revolving Credit Facility, as applicable, using the effective interest method.
Debt Covenants
The 2016 Credit Agreement and the indenture governing the Notes contain various affirmative and negative covenants that, subject to certain customary exceptions, limit the Company and its subsidiaries’ including, in certain limited circumstances, WEX Bank and the Company’s other regulated subsidiaries, ability to, among other things (i) incur additional debt, (ii) pay dividends or make other distributions on, redeem or repurchase capital stock, or make investments or other restricted payments, (iii) enter into transactions with affiliates, (iv) dispose of assets or issue stock of restricted subsidiaries or regulated subsidiaries, (v) create liens on assets, or (vi) effect a consolidation or merger or sell all, or substantially all, of the Company’s assets. Additionally, the indenture governing the Convertible Notes contains customary negative and affirmative covenants that, subject to certain customary exceptions, limit the Company and its subsidiaries', but excluding WEX Bank and the Company's other regulated subsidiaries, ability to, among other things, incur additional debt. These covenants are subject to important exceptions and qualifications. At any time that the Notes are rated investment grade, which is not currently the case, and subject to certain conditions, certain covenants will be suspended with respect to the Notes. WEX Bank and the Company’s other regulated subsidiaries will not be subject to some of the restrictive covenants in the Indenture that place limitations on the Company and its restricted subsidiaries’ actions, and where WEX Bank and the Company’s regulated subsidiaries are subject to covenants, there are significant exceptions and limitations on the application of those covenants to WEX Bank and the Company’s regulated subsidiaries.
The 2016 Credit Agreement also requires, solely for the benefit of the lenders of the Tranche A Term Loan and lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility, that the Company maintain at the end of each fiscal quarter the following financial ratios:
•a Consolidated Interest Coverage (as defined in the 2016 Credit Agreement) of no less than 2.75 to 1.00 at December 31, 2020 and through March 31, 2021, after which the ratio reverts back to no less than 3.00 to 1.00; and
•a Consolidated Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2016 Credit Agreement) of no more than 7.50 to 1.00 through March 31, 2021, 7.00 to 1.00 for the quarter ending June 30, 2021, 6.50 to 1.00 for the quarter ending September 30, 2021, 6.00 to 1.00 for the quarters ending December 31, 2021 through September 30, 2022, and 5.00 to 1.00 thereafter.
Australian Securitization Facility
The Company has a securitized debt agreement with MUFG Bank Ltd., which expires in April 2021. Under the terms of the agreement, each month, on a revolving basis, the Company sells certain of its Australian receivables to the Company’s Australian Securitization Subsidiary. The Australian Securitization Subsidiary, in turn, uses the receivables as collateral to issue asset-backed commercial paper (“securitized debt”) for approximately 85 percent of the securitized receivables. The amount collected on the securitized receivables is restricted to pay the securitized debt and is not available for general corporate purposes.
The Company pays a variable interest rate on the outstanding balance of the securitized debt, based on the Australian Bank Bill Rate plus an applicable margin. The interest rate was 0.97 percent and 1.80 percent as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company had securitized debt under this facility of $62.6 million and $78.6 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, recorded in short-term debt, net.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
European Securitization Facility
The Company maintains a five-year securitized debt agreement with MUFG Bank Ltd., which expires in April 2021. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company sells certain of its receivables from selected European countries to its European Securitization Subsidiary. The European Securitization Subsidiary, in turn, uses the receivables as collateral to issue securitized debt. The amount collected on the securitized receivables is restricted to pay the securitized debt and is not available for general corporate purposes. The amount of receivables to be securitized under this agreement is determined by management on a monthly basis. The interest rate was 0.98 percent and 0.63 percent as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company had securitized debt under this facility of $23.4 million and $25.7 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, recorded in short-term debt, net.
Participation Debt
From time to time, WEX Bank enters into participation agreements with third-party banks to fund customers’ balances that exceed WEX Bank’s lending limit to individual customers. Associated unsecured borrowings generally carry a variable interest rate of 1 month to 3 month LIBOR plus a margin of 225 basis points.
The following table provides the amounts outstanding under the participation debt agreements in place:
1 Amounts available includes up to $60 million under an agreement that terminates on December 31, 2021.
2 Amounts outstanding are recorded in short-term debt, net.
Borrowed Federal Funds
WEX Bank borrows from uncommitted federal funds lines to supplement the financing of the Company's accounts receivable. Federal funds lines of credit were $376.0 million and $355.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. There were $20.0 million and $35.0 million of outstanding borrowings as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The average interest rate on borrowed federal funds was 1.01 percent and 2.36 percent for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
WEX Latin America Debt
WEX Latin America debt was comprised of credit facilities and loan arrangements related to its accounts receivable, which had a 35.04 percent interest rate as of December 31, 2019. The Company sold WEX Latin America on September 30, 2020 and no longer has this debt obligation.
Other
As of December 31, 2020, WEX Bank pledged $249.8 million of fleet receivables held by WEX Bank to the Federal Reserve Bank as collateral for potential borrowings, through the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. Amounts that can be borrowed are based on the amount of collateral pledged and were $188.4 million as of December 31, 2020. WEX Bank had no borrowings outstanding on this line of credit through the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Debt Commitments
The table(1) below summarizes the Company’s annual principal payments on its total debt for each of the next five years:
(1) Table is based on contractual maturities and, therefore, unadjusted for the Company's intention to early redeem its Notes during March 2021, as discussed further in Note 28, Subsequent Events.
As a consequence of the Company’s separation from its former parent company in 2005, the tax basis of the Company’s net tangible and intangible assets increased, reducing the amount of tax that the Company would pay in the future to the extent the Company generated taxable income in sufficient amounts. The Company is contractually obligated to remit a portion of any such cash savings to a third party. The estimated amounts of future payments owed were $2.0 million at December 31, 2020 and $3.7 million at December 31, 2019, which are included within other current liabilities on the consolidated balances sheets based on the timing of payment. There has been a reassessment of the estimate for each period presented. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, this reassessment resulted in an insignificant change in the net future benefits and non-operating expense. In addition, the liability decreased due to payments of $1.3 million and $8.9 million made during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The Company sponsors a 401(k) retirement and savings plan for U.S. employees. Eligible employees may participate in the plan immediately. The Company’s employees who are at least 18 years of age and have completed one year of service are eligible f or Company matching contributions in the plan. The Company matches 100 percent of each employee’s contributions up to a maximum of 6 percent of each employee’s eligible compensation. All contributions vest immediately. WEX has the right to discontinue the plan at any time. Contributions to the plan are voluntary. The Company contributed $13.7 million, $10.0 million and $8.0 million in matching funds to the plan for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Company also sponsors deferred compensation plans for certain employees designated by the Company. Participants may elect to defer receipt of designated percentages or amounts of their compensation. The Company maintains a grantor’s trust to hold the assets under these plans. The related obligations totaled $9.6 million and $8.0 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and are included in other current liabilities and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. The assets are recorded at fair value, with any changes recorded to earnings, and are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 19, Fair Value, for further information.
The Company has defined benefit pension plans in several foreign countries. The total net unfunded status for the Company’s foreign defined benefit pension plans was $6.3 million and $5.9 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These obligations are recorded in other current liabilities, accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. The Company measures these plan obligations at fair value on an annual basis, with any changes recorded to earnings. The aggregate cost for these plans was insignificant to the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
The following table presents the Company’s financial instruments that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis:
1 The fair value is recorded in cash and cash equivalents.
2 The fair value of this security is measured at NAV as a practical expedient and has not been classified within the fair value hierarchy. The amounts presented in this table are intended to permit reconciliation of the fair value hierarchy to the amounts presented in the consolidated balance sheets.
3 The fair value is recorded as current or long-term based on the timing of the Company's executive deferred compensation plan payment obligations. At December 31, 2020, $0.9 million and $8.7 million in fair value is recorded within prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets, respectively. At December 31, 2019, $0.9 million and $7.0 million in fair value is recorded within prepaid expenses and other current assets and other assets, respectively.
4 The fair value is recorded as current or long-term depending on the timing of expected discounted cash flows. At December 31, 2019, $2.4 million of fair value is recorded within prepaid expenses and other current assets.
5 The fair value is recorded as current or long-term depending on the timing of expected discounted cash flows. At December 31, 2020, $22.0 million and $22.9 million of fair value is recorded within other current liabilities and other liabilities, respectively. At December 31, 2019, $6.7 million and $13.1 million of fair value is recorded within other current liabilities and other liabilities, respectively.
Money Market Mutual Funds
A portion of the Company’s cash and cash equivalents are invested in money market mutual funds that primarily consist of short-term government securities, which are classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices in an active market.
Investment Securities
When available, the Company uses quoted market prices to determine the fair value of investment securities; such inputs are classified as Level 1 of the fair-value hierarchy. These securities primarily consist of an open-ended mutual fund, which is invested in fixed-income securities and is held in order to satisfy the regulatory requirements of WEX Bank. For mortgage-backed and asset-backed debt securities and municipal bonds, the Company generally uses quoted prices for recent trading activity of assets with similar characteristics to the debt security or bond being valued. The securities and bonds priced using such methods are generally valued using Level 2 inputs.
Pooled Investment Fund
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The pooled investment fund is a Community Reinvestment Act-eligible investment fund, which seeks to provide bank investors with current income consistent with the returns available in adjustable-rate government guaranteed financial products by investing in Community Development loans guaranteed by the Small Business Administration. The fund maintains individual capital accounts for each investor, which reflect each individual investor’s share of the NAV of the fund.
Executive Deferred Compensation Plan Trust
The investments held in the executive deferred compensation plan trust are classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy because the fair value is determined using quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets.
Interest Rate Swaps
The Company determines the fair value of its interest rate swaps based on the discounted cash flows of the difference between the projected fixed payments on the swaps and the implied floating payments using the current LIBOR curve, which are Level 2 inputs of the fair value hierarchy.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
The Company recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $53.4 million during the year ended December 31, 2020 to write down the carrying value of the reporting unit to fair value using Level 3 inputs as of the annual goodwill impairment test date of October 1, 2020. See Note 9, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, for a description of the valuation techniques and inputs used for the fair value measurement. See Note 24, Impairment Charges, for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2018 and the related impairment charges recorded.
The Company had no other assets and liabilities measured on a non-recurring basis during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Assets and Liabilities Measured at Carrying Value, for which Fair Value is Disclosed
Notes Outstanding
The Company determines the fair value of the Notes based on market rates for the issuance of our debt, which are classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. As of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, the carrying value of the Notes approximated fair value.
2016 Credit Agreement
The Company determines the fair value of the amount outstanding under its 2016 Credit Agreement based on the market rates for the issuance of the Company’s debt, which are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the carrying value of the 2016 Credit Agreement, including both the tranche A and tranche B term loans, approximated fair value.
Convertible Notes
The Company determines the fair value of the Convertible Notes outstanding using our stock price and volatility, the conversion premium on the Convertible Notes and effective interest rates for similarly rated credit issuances, all of which are Level 2 inputs in the fair value hierarchy. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of our convertible notes is $405.6 million.
Other Assets and Liabilities
The Company's financial instruments, other than those presented above, include cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and other liabilities. The carrying values of such assets and liabilities approximate their respective fair values due to their short-term nature. The carrying values of certificates of deposit, interest-bearing brokered money market deposits, securitized debt, participation debt and borrowed federal funds approximate their respective fair values as the interest rates on these financial instruments are variable market-based rates. All other financial instruments are reflected at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
On March 5, 2019, the Company acquired Discovery Benefits, an employee benefits administrator. The seller of Discovery Benefits obtained a 4.9 percent equity interest in the newly formed parent company of WEX Health and Discovery Benefits (the “U.S. Health business”). The seller’s 4.9 percent non-controlling interest in the U.S. Health business was initially established at both carrying value and fair value. On the date of acquisition, the excess of the fair value of the 4.9 percent equity interest in WEX Health over its carrying value was recognized as an equity transaction, resulting in a $41.4 million increase to additional paid-in capital. Remeasurement of the equity interest to fair value during the first quarter of 2019 resulted in an increase to redeemable non-controlling interest of $41.4 million and an offsetting decrease to retained earnings that did not impact earnings per share.
The agreement provides the seller with a put right and the Company with a call right for the equity interest, which can be exercised no earlier than seven years following the date of acquisition. Upon exercise of the put or call right, the purchase price is calculated based on a revenue multiple of peer companies (as described in the operating agreement for the U.S. Health business) applied to trailing twelve month revenues of the U.S. Health business. The put option makes the non-controlling interest redeemable and, therefore, the non-controlling interest is classified as temporary equity outside of stockholders’ equity.
The Company calculates the redemption value of the non-controlling interest on a quarterly basis using revenue multiples as determined in accordance with the operating agreement for the U.S. Health business and described above. The redeemable non-controlling interest is reported at the higher of its redemption value or the non-controlling interest holder’s proportionate share of the U.S. Health business’ net carrying value. Any resulting change in the value of the redeemable non-controlling interest will be offset against retained earnings and impact earnings per share.
The following table presents the changes in the Company’s redeemable non-controlling interest:
Litigation
The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business. As of the date of this filing, the current estimate of a reasonably possible loss contingency from all legal proceedings is not material to the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows or liquidity.
Extension of Credit to Customers
We have entered into commitments to extend credit in the ordinary course of business. We had $6.6 billion of unused commitments to extend credit at December 31, 2020, as part of established customer agreements. These amounts may increase or decrease during 2021 as we increase or decrease credit to customers, subject to appropriate credit reviews, as part of our lending product agreements. Many of these commitments are not expected to be utilized. We can adjust most of our customers’ credit lines at our discretion at any time. Therefore, we do not believe total unused credit available to customers and customers of strategic relationships represents future cash requirements.
The unfunded portion of an extension of credit to customers fluctuates as the Company increases or decreases customer credit limits, subject to appropriate credit reviews. Given that the Company can generally adjust its customers’ credit lines at its discretion at any time, the unfunded portion of loan commitments to customers is unconditionally cancellable and thus the Company has not established a liability for expected credit losses on those commitments.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
Unfunded Commitment
As a member bank, we have committed to funding a maximum of $8.0 million of loans to a nonprofit, community development financial institution to facilitate their offering of flexible financing for affordable, quality housing to assist Utah’s low and moderate-income residents. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has funded $2.3 million of its commitment, which has been included on the consolidated balance sheet within accounts receivable. The Company’s remaining unused commitment as of December 31, 2020 is $5.7 million.
Minimum Volume and Spend Commitments
Two of the Company’s subsidiaries are required to purchase a minimum amount of fuel from suppliers on an annual basis through 2024. Upon failing to meet these minimum volume commitments, a penalty is assessed as defined under the contracts. The Company incurred $3.6 million of shortfall penalties under these contracts during the year ended December 31, 2020. If the Company does not purchase any fuel under these commitments after December 31, 2020, it would incur penalties totaling $49.6 million through 2024. The Company considers the associated risk of loss to be remote based on current operations.
The Company is subject to minimum annual spend commitments as part of negotiated contracts for certain IT and non-IT related services through 2023. Minimum spend commitments under these contracts as of December 31, 2020 total $15.7 million, with commitments of $8.3 million in 2021, $6.7 million in 2022 and $0.7 million in 2023.
The Company has certain restrictions on the dividends it may pay, including those under the 2016 Credit Agreement. The 2016 Credit Agreement does allow us to make certain restricted payments (including dividends) if we are able to demonstrate pro forma compliance with a consolidated leverage ratio, as defined in the 2016 Credit Agreement, of no more than 2.50 to 1.00 for the most recent period of four fiscal quarters after execution of a restricted payment. Additionally, as long as the Company would be in compliance with its interest charge coverage ratio and the lower of a consolidated leverage ratio of 5.50 to 1.00 and its maximum permitted consolidated leverage ratio for such period under the 2016 Credit Agreement after giving pro forma effect to such restricted payment, the Company may pay $50 million per annum for restricted payments, including dividends, of which 100% of unused amounts may be carried over into subsequent years. The Company has not declared any dividends on its common stock since it commenced trading on the NYSE on February 16, 2005.
Dividends paid by WEX Bank have provided a substantial part of the Company’s operating funds and for the foreseeable future it is anticipated that dividends paid by WEX Bank will continue to be a source of operating funds to the Company. Capital adequacy requirements serve to limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by WEX Bank. WEX Bank is chartered under the laws of the State of Utah and the FDIC insures its deposits. Under Utah law, WEX Bank may only pay a dividend out of net profits after it has (i) provided for all expenses, losses, interest and taxes accrued or due from WEX Bank and (ii) transferred to a surplus fund 10 percent of its net profits before dividends for the period covered by the dividend, until the surplus reaches 100 percent of its capital stock. For purposes of these Utah dividend limitations, WEX Bank’s capital stock is $5.3 million and its capital surplus exceeds 100 percent of capital stock.
Under FDIC regulations, WEX Bank may not pay any dividend if, following the payment of the dividend, WEX Bank would be “undercapitalized,” as defined under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and applicable regulations. The FDIC also has the authority to prohibit WEX Bank from engaging in business practices that the FDIC considers to be unsafe or unsound, which, depending on the financial condition of WEX Bank, could include the payment of dividends.
WEX Bank complied with the aforementioned dividend restrictions for each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
On May 9, 2019, our stockholders approved the WEX Inc. 2019 Equity and Incentive Plan (the “Plan”), which replaced our 2010 Equity and Incentive Plan (the “Prior Plan”). Upon the expiration of the Prior Plan on May 20, 2020, all then outstanding awards will remain in effect, but no additional awards may be made under the Prior Plan. The Plan permits the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units and other stock-based or cash-based awards to non-employee directors, officers, employees, advisors or consultants. The Plans permit the Company to grant a total
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
number of shares which is the sum of; (i) 3.7 million shares of common stock; plus (ii) such additional number of shares of common stock (up to 1.5 million) as is equal to the number of shares of common stock subject to awards granted under the Prior Plan. There were 3.6 million shares of common stock available for grant for future equity compensation awards under the Plan at December 31, 2020.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had four stock-based compensation award types, which are described below. The compensation cost that has been recorded as an expense for these programs totals $63.9 million, $45.6 million and $33.9 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. In connection with the Noventis acquisition, the Company recognized an additional $5.5 million of compensation cost for 2019. Refer to Note 4, Acquisitions, for further information. The associated tax benefit related to these costs was $11.5 million, $9.9 million and $8.0 million, for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Restricted Stock Units
The Company periodically grants RSUs, a right to receive a specific number of shares of the Company’s common stock at a specified date, to non-employee directors and certain employees. RSUs granted to non-employee directors vest 12 months from the date of grant, or upon termination of board service if the director elects to defer receipt. RSUs issued to certain employees generally vest evenly over up to three years and provide for accelerated vesting if there is a change of control (as defined in the Plan). The fair value of each RSU award is based on the closing market price of the Company’s stock on the day of grant as reported by the NYSE.
The following is a summary of RSU activity during the year ended December 31, 2020:
1 The Company withholds shares of common stock to pay the minimum required statutory taxes due upon RSU vesting. Cash is then remitted by the Company to the appropriate taxing authorities.
As of December 31, 2020, there was $42.2 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to RSUs. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years. The total grant-date fair value of RSUs granted was $37.0 million, $34.0 million and $16.8 million during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The total fair value of RSUs that vested during 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $11.9 million, $7.6 million and $9.2 million, respectively.
Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units
The Company periodically grants PBRSUs to employees. A PBRSU is a right to receive stock based on the achievement of both performance goals and continued employment during the vesting period. In a PBRSU, the number of shares earned varies based upon meeting certain performance goals. PBRSU awards generally have performance goals spanning one to three years, depending on the nature of the performance goal. The fair value of each PBRSU award is based on the closing market price of the Company’s stock on the grant date as reported by the NYSE.
Market-Based Restricted Stock Units (TSR awards)
Given the economic uncertainty and business disruption created by the COVID-19 pandemic, effective June 23, 2020, the Company's Compensation Committee approved certain modifications to performance-based restricted stock units previously granted on March 16, 2020 and March 20, 2019. Such changes included replacing Company performance metrics with TSR metrics for the March 16, 2020 awards, and for the March 20, 2019 awards, adding a relative TSR modifier to scale the payment up or down by +/- 15 percent. Additionally, the Company granted certain employees new TSR awards on June 24, 2020.
Attainment of the Company's TSR awards is tied to WEX's TSR relative to the S&P 400 from the time of modification (for awards modified on June 23, 2020) or grant date (for awards granted on June 24, 2020). Given that these are market-based performance awards, the fair value is calculated by the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The key inputs for the fair values and other relevant information by grant date are outlined below:
1 At the date of grant or modification date, whichever is applicable.
2 At the date of grant or modification date, whichever is applicable. The CEO's June 24, 2020 award has a one-year post-vesting holding period.
3 For the Company's awards that were modified on June 23, 2020, the final attainment for recipients other than executive officers will be based on the greater of the payout under the original awards performance metrics or the modified metrics as described above. As a result, the Company is required to assess which payout is more likely and adjust the expense accordingly. If the original awards' performance metrics are expected to result in a higher number of shares vesting, then the expense recorded will be based on awards expected to vest at the grant-date stock price. Alternatively, if the modified metrics are expected to result in a higher number of shares vesting, then the expense recorded will be based on the fair value calculated using the Monte Carlo simulation valuation model. As of December 31, 2020, the expense associated with the awards in the table above is calculated using the Monte Carlo modification-date fair value.
The following is a summary of TSR awards and PBRSU activity during the year ended December 31, 2020:
1 The Company withholds shares of common stock to pay the minimum required statutory taxes due upon PBRSU vesting. Cash is then remitted by the Company to the appropriate taxing authorities.
2 Reflects adjustments to the number of shares of PBRSUs expected to vest based on the change in performance attainment during the year ended December 31, 2020.
As of December 31, 2020, there was $74.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the TSR awards and PBRSUs that is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.0 years. The total grant-date fair value of PBRSUs and TSRs granted during 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $58.5 million, $19.0 million and $18.3 million, respectively. The total grant-date fair value of PBRSUs that vested during 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $21.7 million, $9.3 million and $12.0 million, respectively.
Stock Options
Market Performance-Based Stock Options
In May 2017, the Company granted market performance-based stock options with a contractual term of ten years to certain members of senior management. The options contain a market condition that requires the closing price of the Company’s stock to meet or exceed certain price thresholds for twenty consecutive trading days (“Stock Price Hurdle”) in order
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
for shares to vest. The options also contain a service condition that requires the award recipients to be continually employed from the grant date until such date that the Stock Price Hurdle is satisfied in order for shares to vest. The Stock Price Hurdle began operating in May 2020, on the third anniversary of the grant date. As of December 31, 2020, 75 percent of the shares had vested as a result of the Company's stock exceeding the applicable Stock Price Hurdle. The Stock Price Hurdle condition ends five years from the date of grant, and therefore the remaining 25 percent of awards may still vest.
The grant date fair value of these options was estimated on the date of the grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation model used to simulate a distribution of future stock price paths based on historical volatility levels. The Company expensed the total grant date fair value of these options on a graded basis over the derived service period of approximately three years.
The table below summarizes the assumptions used to calculate the fair value:
Service-Based Stock Options
The Company periodically grants stock options to certain officers and employees under the Plan, which generally become exercisable over three years (with approximately 33 percent of the total grant vesting each year on the anniversary of the grant date) and expire 10 years from the date of grant. All service-based stock option grants provide for an option exercise price equal to the closing market value of the common stock on the date of grant as reported by the NYSE.
Based on the Company’s lack of historical option exercise experience and granting of stock options with “plain vanilla” characteristics, the Company uses the simplified method to estimate the expected term of its employee stock options. The fair value of each option award is estimated on the grant date using the following assumptions and a Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model. The expected term assumption as it relates to the valuation of the options represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The Company estimates expected stock price volatility based on historical volatility of the Company’s common stock over a period matching the expected term of the options granted. The option-pricing model also includes a risk-free interest rate for the period matching the expected term of the option and is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant. We have never paid nor do we expect to pay any cash dividends on our common stock; therefore, we assume that no dividends will be paid over the expected terms of option awards.
The table below summarizes the assumptions used to calculate the fair value by year of grant:
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The following is a summary of all stock option activity during the year ended December 31, 2020:
As of December 31, 2020, there was $9.6 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to options. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.1 years. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $8.7 million, $5.7 million and $1.9 million, respectively. The total grant-date fair value of options granted during 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $9.3 million, $7.2 million, and $5.2 million, respectively.
Deferred Stock Units
Non-employee directors may elect to defer their cash fees and RSUs in the form of DSUs. The Company grants fully vested DSUs to non-employee directors. These awards are distributed as common stock 200 days immediately following the date upon which such director’s service as a member of the Company’s Board of Directors terminates for any reason. There were approximately 54 thousand and 63 thousand DSUs outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. DSU activity is included in the RSU table above. Unvested DSUs as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were not material.
During 2020, the Company recorded a $53.4 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge related to the WEX Fleet Europe reporting unit (the 2019 Go Fuel Card acquisition). See Note 9, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, for further information. The Company did not record any impairment charges during its annual goodwill assessment completed in the fourth quarter of 2019. In the fourth quarter of 2018, a goodwill impairment charge of $3.2 million was recorded related to the Brazil fleet reporting unit. Management also impaired $2.4 million of computer software in 2018, which was determined to provide no future benefit.
The Company determines its operating segments and reports segment information in accordance with how the Company’s chief operating decision maker (“CODM”) allocates resources and assesses performance. The Company’s CODM is its Chief Executive Officer. The operating segments are aggregated into the three reportable segments described below.
•Fleet Solutions provides customers with payment and transaction processing services specifically designed for the needs of commercial and government fleets. This segment also provides information management services to these fleet customers.
•Travel and Corporate Solutions focuses on the complex payment environment of B2B payments, providing customers with payment processing solutions for their corporate payment and transaction monitoring needs.
•Health and Employee Benefit Solutions provides healthcare payment products and SaaS consumer directed platforms. Prior to the sale of WEX Latin America, this operating segment additionally provided payroll related benefits to customers.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The following tables present the Company’s reportable segment revenues:
No one customer accounted for more than 10 percent of the total consolidated revenue in 2020, 2019 or 2018.
The CODM evaluates the financial performance of each segment using segment adjusted operating income, which excludes: (i) unallocated corporate expenses; (ii) acquisition and divestiture related items (including acquisition-related intangible amortization); (iii) legal settlement; (iv) impairment charges; (v) loss on sale of subsidiary; (vi) debt restructuring costs; (vii) stock-based compensation; and (viii) other costs. Additionally, we do not allocate foreign currency gains and losses, financing interest expense, unrealized and realized gains and losses on financial instruments and non-cash adjustments related to the tax receivable agreement to our operating segments.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
The following table reconciles total segment adjusted operating income to (loss) income before income taxes:
Assets are not allocated to the segments for internal reporting purposes.
Geographic Data
Revenue by principal geographic area, based on the country in which the sale originated, was as follows:
1 No single country within made up more than 5 percent of total revenues for any of the years presented.
Net property, equipment and capitalized software is subject to geographic risks because it is generally difficult to move and relatively illiquid. Net property, equipment and capitalized software by principal geographic area was as follows:
1 No single country within made up more than 5 percent of total net property, equipment and capitalized software for any of the years presented.
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
26.Supplementary Regulatory Capital Disclosure
The Company’s subsidiary, WEX Bank is subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the FDIC and the Utah Department of Financial Institutions. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, WEX Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of WEX Bank’s assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items. WEX Bank’s capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could limit business activities and have a material effect on the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition.
Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require WEX Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios as defined in the regulations. As of December 31, 2020, the most recent FDIC exam report categorized WEX Bank as “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. There are no conditions or events subsequent to that examination report that management believes have changed WEX Bank’s capital rating.
The following table presents WEX Bank’s actual and regulatory minimum capital amounts and ratios:
Bell Bank Revolving Credit Agreement
The seller of Discovery Benefits, Bell Bank, holds a 4.9 percent equity interest in the Company's U.S. Health business and is a revolving loan lender under the Company's 2016 Credit Agreement. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, there were no amounts outstanding, with available capacity of $50.0 million.
Warburg Pincus Convertible Notes
On July 1, 2020, the Company closed on a private placement with an affiliate of funds managed by Warburg Pincus LLC, pursuant to which the Company issued convertible senior unsecured notes due in 2027 in an aggregate principal amount of $310 million and 577,254 shares of common stock, with gross proceeds in respect of the common stock of $90 million. After giving effect to the purchase of the common stock and convertible notes, on an as-converted basis, Warburg Pincus owned approximately 4.7% of the Company's outstanding common stock on the closing date of the private placement. Refer to Note 16, Financing and Other Debt, for more information regarding the convertible senior notes.
A member of the Company’s board of directors (“related person”), is a managing director at Warburg Pincus LLC. The Company has a written policy regarding entering certain transactions in which any member of the board of directors has a direct or indirect material interest. Pursuant to this policy, the private placement was approved by the Corporate Governance Committee of the Company’s board of directors, after it had reviewed and considered all relevant facts and circumstances, including, but not limited to, whether the transaction was entered into on terms no less favorable to the Company than terms
WEX INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
that could have been reached with an unrelated third party and the interest of the related person in the transaction. Following approval by the Corporate Governance Committee of the board of directors, the private placement was approved by the disinterested members of the Company’s board of directors.
HSA Purchase Agreement
On February 11, 2021, the Company entered into an asset purchase agreement with Bell Bank to acquire certain HSA assets, including the custodial rights for certain HSAs from Bell Bank's HealthcareBank division, the custodian bank for customers of the U.S. Health business. We believe the acquisition will allow the Company to better capture the economics from those HSAs, leverage our investments to provide customers with market-leading HSA solutions, and align with our growth strategy. The transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2021, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.
Pursuant to the purchase agreement, the Company will pay Bell Bank initial cash consideration of approximately $200 million, and two additional deferred cash payments of $25 million in July 2023 and January 2024, contingent upon closing of the transaction. The agreement also includes potential additional consideration payable, over the ten years subsequent to the closing date, that is contingent on, and calculated based on, any future increases in the Federal Funds rate. Potential additional consideration may not exceed $225 million in the aggregate over the ten year period and will not adversely impact the Company’s adjusted net income or financial position as net revenues earned on the acquired HSA assets will increase in the event the Federal Funds rate increases in the future.
Notes Redemption Notice
On February 11, 2021, the Company provided irrevocable notice to The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., the trustee for the Notes, of its intent to redeem its outstanding $400 million 4.75% Senior Secured Notes due February 1, 2023 on March 15, 2021. The redemption price of the Notes is $400 million plus accrued and unpaid interest through the proposed redemption date. The redemption is expected to be funded from cash.
ITEM 9.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 1b76d4bcf6141c8efeb2ec248a13c80b
- Approx. Length: 33309 characters