# Context

Item 1A.
Risk Factors
Summary Risk Factors
We are subject to a number of risks that, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Some of our more significant challenges and risks include, but are not limited to, the following, which are described in greater detail below:
•
Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
•
The COVID-19 pandemic and the CARES Act have significantly increased the number of borrowers in forbearance whose loans are in our CRT arrangements which may lead to significant future credit or fair value losses.
•
We operate in a highly regulated industry and the continually changing federal, state and local laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
•
New CFPB and state rules and regulations and more stringent enforcement of existing rules and regulations by the CFPB or state regulators could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and the inherent reputational harm that results from such actions.
•
We are highly dependent on U.S. government-sponsored entities and government agencies, and any changes in these entities, their current roles or the leadership at such entities or their regulators could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.
•
Our business prospects, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely impacted by the CFPB’s final General Qualified Mortgage (“QM”) loan rule for certain GSE eligible loans and its impact on the ability to repay rules.
•
We and/or PLS are required to have various Agency approvals and state licenses in order to conduct our business and there is no assurance we and/or PLS will be able to obtain or maintain those Agency approvals or state licenses.
•
Our or PLS’ inability to meet certain net worth and liquidity requirements imposed by the Agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.
•
Difficult conditions in the mortgage, real estate and financial markets and the economy generally may adversely affect the performance and fair value of our investments.
•
A disruption in the MBS market could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
•
We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may limit our financial and operating activities, expose us to substantial increases in costs due to interest rate fluctuations, expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.
•
We finance our investments with borrowings, which may materially and adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders.
•
We may not be able to raise the debt or equity capital required to finance our assets and grow our businesses.
•
Interest rate fluctuations could significantly decrease our results of operations and cash flows and the fair value of our investments.
•
Our correspondent production activities could subject us to increased risk of loss.
•
The success and growth of our correspondent production activities will depend, in part, upon PLS’ ability to adapt to and implement technological changes and to successfully develop, implement and protect its proprietary technology.
•
We are not an approved Ginnie Mae issuer and an increase in the percentage or amount of government loans we acquire could be detrimental to our results of operations.
•
Our retention of credit risk underlying loans we sell to the GSEs is inherently uncertain and exposes us to significant risk of loss.
•
The Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”) has instructed government-sponsored entities to gradually wind down new lender risk share transactions such as CRT investments as of the end of 2020. If we are unable to find a suitable alternative investment to investing in CRTs with similar returns, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
•
A portion of our investments is in the form of loans, and the loans in which we invest subject us to costs and losses arising from delinquency and foreclosure, as well as the risks associated with residential real estate and residential real estate-related investments, any of which could result in losses to us.
•
Our acquisition of mortgage servicing rights exposes us to significant risks.
•
Our acquisition of excess servicing spread has exposed us to significant risks.
•
The failure of PLS or any other servicer to effectively service our portfolio of MSRs and loans would materially and adversely affect us.
•
We are subject to certain risks associated with investing in real estate and real estate related assets, including risks of loss from adverse weather conditions, man-made or natural disasters, pandemics, such as COVID-19, terrorist attacks, and the effects of climate change, which may cause disruptions in our operations and could materially and adversely affect the real estate industry generally and our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.
•
We may be materially and adversely affected by risks affecting borrowers or the asset or property types in which our investments may be concentrated at any given time, as well as from unfavorable changes in the related geographic regions.
•
Many of our investments are illiquid and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions.
•
Fair values of many of our investments are estimates and the realization of reduced values from our recorded estimates may materially and adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders.
•
We are required to make servicing advances that can be subject to delays in recovery or may not be recoverable in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
•
We are dependent upon PCM and PLS and their resources and may not find suitable replacements if any of our service agreements with PCM or PLS are terminated.
•
The management fee structure could cause disincentive and/or create greater investment risk.
•
Termination of our management agreement is difficult and costly.
•
Certain provisions of Maryland law, our staggered board of trustees and certain provisions in our declaration of trust could each inhibit a change in our control.
•
Failure to maintain exemptions or exclusions from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 could materially and adversely affect us.
•
Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our shareholders.
•
Even if we qualify as a REIT, we face tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow, and a significant portion of our income may be earned through taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs, that are subject to U.S. federal income taxation.
•
The percentage of our assets represented by a TRS and the amount of our income that we can receive in the form of TRS dividends are subject to statutory limitations that could jeopardize our REIT status.
•
The risk management efforts of our Manager may not be effective.
•
Cybersecurity risks, cyber incidents and technology failures may adversely affect our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results.
The above list is not exhaustive, and we face additional challenges and risks. Please carefully consider all of the information in this Report, including the matters set forth below in this Item 1A.
Risk Factors
In addition to the other information set forth in this Report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations in future periods. The risks described below are not the only risks that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations in future periods.
Risks Related to Our Business
Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
The COVID-19 pandemic has created unprecedented economic, financial and public health disruptions that have adversely affected, and are likely to continue to adversely affect, our business, financial condition and results of operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the scope and duration of the pandemic and actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to COVID-19 pandemic.
The federal government enacted the CARES Act, which allows borrowers with federally-backed loans to request temporary payment forbearance in response to the increased borrower hardships resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The initial forbearance period is up to 180 days, subject to a further extension of up to 180 days. In addition, in February 2021 the federal government announced an additional extension of three to six months depending on loan type. As a result of the CARES Act forbearance requirements, we have experienced continued elevated delinquencies in our servicing portfolio that may require us to finance substantial amounts of advances of principal and interest payments to the holders of the securities holding those loans, as well as advances of property taxes, insurance premiums and other expenses to protect investors’ interests in the properties securing the loans. In fiscal year 2020, elevated prepayment activity was sufficient to cover principal and interest payment advances required under the CARES Act, however, in the future elevated prepayment activity may be insufficient to cover required principal and interest advances. We also expect the effects of the CARES Act forbearance requirements to reduce our servicing fee income and increase our servicing expenses due to the increased number of delinquent loans and significant levels of forbearance that we have granted and continue to grant, as well as the resolution of loans that we expect to ultimately default as the result of the COVID-19 pandemic. As of December 31, 2020, 2.1% of the loans in our MSR portfolio were in COVID-19 related forbearance plans and delinquent resulting in an increase in the level of servicing advances we have been required to make due to borrower delinquencies.
Financial markets have experienced substantial volatility and reduced liquidity, resulting in unprecedented federal government intervention to lower the federal funds rate to near zero and support market liquidity by purchasing assets in many financial markets, including the mortgage-backed securities market. The CARES Act forbearance requirements and the decline in interest rates and financial markets in early 2020 have negatively impacted the fair value of our servicing assets and CRT arrangements. In addition, the CARES Act forbearance requirements and the decline in the value of financial assets linked to consumer credit performance in early 2020 caused us to report material losses.
Further market volatility or economic weakness may result in additional declines in the value of our credit assets and make it increasingly difficult to optimize our hedging activities. Also, our liquidity and/or regulatory capital could be adversely impacted by volatility and disruptions in the capital and credit markets. In addition, if we fail to meet or satisfy any of the covenants in our repurchase agreements or other financing arrangements as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, we would be in default under these agreements, which could result in a cross-default or cross-acceleration under other financing arrangements, and our lenders could elect to declare outstanding amounts due and payable (or such amounts may automatically become due and payable), terminate their commitments, require the posting of additional collateral and enforce their respective interests against existing collateral.
We may also have difficulty accessing debt and equity capital on attractive terms, or at all, as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which may adversely affect our access to capital necessary to fund our operations or address maturing liabilities on a timely basis. This includes renewals of our existing financing arrangements with our lenders who may be adversely impacted by the volatility and dislocations in the financial markets and may not be willing or able to continue to extend us credit on the same terms, or on favorable terms, or at all.
In addition, our business could be disrupted if our Manager is unable to operate due to changing governmental restrictions such as travel bans and quarantines placed or reinstituted on its employees or operations, including successfully operating its and our business from remote locations, ensuring the protection of its employees’ health, and maintaining its information technology infrastructure.
Federal, state, and local executive, legislative and regulatory responses to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic are rapidly evolving, may be inconsistent and conflict in scope or application, and may be subject to change without advance notice. These regulatory responses may impose additional compliance obligations, may extend existing CARES Act forbearance requirements and delay our licensing efforts, which may negatively impact our business. In addition, the CARES Act and other federal, state and local regulations are subject to interpretation given the existing ambiguities in the rules and regulations, which may result in future class action and other litigation risk.
Governmental authorities have taken additional measures to stabilize the financial markets and support the economy including providing monetary relief and extending foreclosure and eviction moratoria. The outcome of these measures are unknown and they may not be sufficient to address the current market dislocations or avert severe and prolonged reductions in economic activity. We may also face increased risks of disputes with our business partners, litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny as a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. The scope and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and the efficacy of the extraordinary measures put in place to address it are currently unknown. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, the economy may not fully recover for some time and we may be materially and adversely affected by a prolonged recession or economic downturn.
To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, financial condition and results of operations, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Item 1A.
The COVID-19 pandemic and the CARES Act have significantly increased the number of borrowers who are in forbearance whose loans are in our CRT arrangements which may lead to significant future credit or fair value losses.
On March 27, 2020, the federal government enacted the CARES Act, which allows borrowers with federally-backed loans to request temporary payment forbearance if they attest that they are directly or indirectly experiencing any financial hardship resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The initial forbearance period is up to 180 days, subject to further extension of up to 180 days. In addition, in February 2021 the federal government announced an additional extension of three to six months depending on loan type.
The CARES Act also precludes loan servicers like us from reporting borrowers subject to forbearance plans as delinquent to the credit reporting agencies even though the federally-backed loans may still be characterized as delinquent for the purposes of our CRT arrangements with Fannie Mae. Our CRT arrangements are structured such that we retain a portion of the credit risk and an interest-only ownership interest in the reference loans and, under certain of our CRT Agreements, may be required to realize losses in the event of a loan delinquency of 180 days or more even where there is ultimately no loss realized with respect to such loan (e.g., as a result of a borrower’s re-performance).
Although these CRT Agreements were amended in 2018 to ensure that forbearances resulting from Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma were not considered to be delinquent for the purposes of the 180 day delinquency fixed loss severity schedule, Fannie Mae and its regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Authority, announced that they will not provide similar treatment for forbearances resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic for certain of our CRT Agreements.
Given the federal government mandate to approve requested forbearances upon the request of a borrower and subject only to his or her attestation of the COVID-19 pandemic impact, we expect the number of forbearances requested and approved under our CRT arrangements will result in credit losses and fair value losses that may be material and that may require us to write down the value of the assets significantly. In the event of a foreclosure, the proceeds upon the sale of such underlying real estate may not be sufficient to repay the borrower’s mortgage loan obligation, which could result in losses to our CRT arrangements and to us. Any such losses we incur may reduce distributions to our shareholders and may materially and adversely affect our results of operations, our financial condition, and the market value of our common shares.
We operate in a highly regulated industry and the continually changing federal, state and local laws and regulations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We are required to comply with a wide array of federal, state and local laws and regulations that regulate, among other things, the manner in which we conduct our loan production and servicing businesses. These regulations directly impact our business and require constant compliance, monitoring and internal and external audits. PLS and the service providers it uses, including outside counsel retained to process foreclosures and bankruptcies, must also comply with some of these legal requirements.
Our failure or the failure of PLS to operate effectively and in compliance with these laws, regulations and rules could subject us to lawsuits or governmental actions and damage our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our failure or the failure of PLS to comply with these laws, regulations and rules may result in increased costs of doing business, reduced payments by borrowers, modification of the original terms of loans, permanent
forgiveness of debt, delays in the foreclosure process, increased servicing advances, litigation, reputational damage, enforcement actions, and repurchase and indemnification obligations.
The failure of our correspondent sellers to comply with any applicable laws, regulations and rules may also result in these adverse consequences. PLS has in place a due diligence program designed to assess areas of risk with respect to loans we acquire from such correspondent sellers. However, we may not detect every violation of law and, to the extent any correspondent sellers, third party originators, servicers or brokers with whom we do business fail to comply with applicable laws or regulations and any of their loans or MSRs become part of our assets, it could subject us, as an assignee or purchaser of the related loans or MSRs, to monetary penalties or other losses. While we may have contractual rights to seek indemnity or repurchase from certain of these lenders, third party originators, servicers or brokers, if any of them are unable to fulfill their indemnity or repurchase obligations to us to a material extent, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our service providers and other vendors are also required to operate in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and rules. Our failure to adequately manage service providers and other vendors to mitigate risks of noncompliance with applicable laws may also have these negative results.
The recent outcome of the 2020 U.S. Presidential and Congressional elections could result in significant policy changes or regulatory uncertainty in our industry and may result in increased regulatory scrutiny and enforcement actions. While it is not possible to predict when and whether significant policy or regulatory changes would occur, any such changes on the federal, state or local level could significantly impact, among other things, our operating expenses, the availability of mortgage financing, interest rates, consumer spending, the economy and the geopolitical landscape. To the extent that the new government administration takes action by proposing and/or passing regulatory policies that could have a negative impact on our industry, such actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. To the extent any such state regulators impose new minimum net worth, capital ratio and liquidity standards that are overly burdensome, such actions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The Financial Stability Oversight Council (“FSOC”) and Conference of State Bank Supervisors (“CSBS”) have been reviewing whether state chartered nonbank mortgage servicers should be subject to "safety and soundness" standards similar to those imposed by federal law on insured depository institutions, even though nonbank mortgage servicers do not hold any funds in federally insured deposit accounts. For example, on September 29, 2020, the CSBS, released proposed prudential standards for state oversight of nonbank mortgage servicers. The proposed CSBS prudential standards would include revised minimum net worth, capital ratio and liquidity standards similar to existing FHFA requirements and would require servicers to maintain sufficient allowable assets to cover normal operating expenses in addition to the amounts required for servicing expenses. In addition, the FSOC has encouraged state regulators to work to develop prudential and corporate governance standards for nonbank mortgage servicers and has issued guidance describing the process FSOC would follow if it were to consider making a determination to subject a nonbank financial company to supervision by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and prudential standards.
New CFPB and state rules and regulations or more stringent enforcement of existing rules and regulations by the CFPB or state regulators could result in enforcement actions, fines, penalties and the inherent reputational harm that results from such actions.
The CFPB has regulatory authority over certain aspects of our business as a result of our residential mortgage banking activities, including, without limitation, the authority to conduct investigations, bring enforcement actions, impose monetary penalties, require remediation of practices, pursue administrative proceedings or litigation, and obtain cease and desist orders for violations of applicable federal consumer financial laws. Although there was a decline in enforcement actions by the CFPB under the prior federal administration, examinations by state regulators and enforcement actions in the residential mortgage and servicing sectors by state attorneys general have increased and may continue to increase under the new federal administration. Failure to comply with the CFPB and state laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, could have a material adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.
Our or PLS’ failure to comply with the laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, would expose us or PLS to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our or PLS’ business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We are highly dependent on U.S. government-sponsored entities and government agencies, and any changes in these entities, their current roles or the leadership at such entities or their regulators could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.
Our ability to generate revenues through loan sales depends on programs administered by the Agencies and others that facilitate the issuance of MBS in the secondary market. Presently, almost all of the newly originated loans that we acquire from mortgage lenders through our correspondent production activities qualify under existing standards for inclusion in mortgage securities backed by the Agencies. We also derive other material financial benefits from these relationships, including the ability to avoid certain loan inventory finance costs through streamlined loan funding and sale procedures.
A number of legislative proposals have been introduced in recent years that would wind down or phase out the GSEs, including a proposal by the prior federal administration to end the conservatorship and privatize Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. On November 18, 2020, the FHFA finalized new regulatory capital rules for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac that requires them to increase their capital to $280 billion. The FHFA did not specify how the new regulatory capital requirements will be achieved or a timeframe for meeting the capital target, however, any increase in guaranty fees or other costs imposed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to raise additional capital may have a negative impact on the mortgage market and could reduce Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac’s future role in the mortgage industry. It is not possible to predict the scope and nature of the actions that the U.S. government, including the new federal administration, will ultimately take with respect to the GSEs. Any changes in laws and regulations affecting the relationship between Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac and their regulators or the U.S. federal government, and any changes in leadership at any of these entities could adversely affect our business and prospects. Any discontinuation of, or significant reduction in, the operation of Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or any significant adverse change in their capital structure, financial condition, activity levels in the primary or secondary mortgage markets or underwriting criteria could materially and adversely affect our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Elimination of the traditional roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, or any changes to the nature or extent of the guarantees provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac or the fees, terms and guidelines that govern our selling and servicing relationships with them could also materially and adversely affect our business, including our ability to sell and securitize loans that we acquire through our correspondent production activities, and the performance, liquidity and market value of our investments. Moreover, any changes to the nature of the GSEs or their guarantee obligations could redefine what constitutes an Agency MBS and could have broad adverse implications for the market and our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Our ability to generate revenues from newly originated loans that we acquire through our correspondent production activities is also highly dependent on the fact that the Agencies have not historically acquired such loans directly from mortgage lenders, but have instead relied on banks and non-bank aggregators such as us to acquire, aggregate and securitize or otherwise sell such loans to investors in the secondary market. Certain of the Agencies have approved new and smaller lenders that traditionally may not have qualified for such approvals. To the extent that mortgage lenders choose to sell directly to the Agencies rather than through loan aggregators like us, this reduces the number of loans available for purchase, and it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Similarly, to the extent the Agencies increase the number of purchases and sales for their own accounts, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our business prospects, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be adversely impacted by the CFPB’s final General Qualified Mortgage (“QM”) loan rule for certain GSE eligible loans and its impact on the ability to repay rules.
The Dodd-Frank Act provides that a lender must make “a reasonable, good faith determination” of each borrower’s ability to repay a loan, but may presume that a borrower will be able to repay a loan if such loan has certain characteristics that meet the QM definition. The CFPB adopted its QM definition that establishes rigorous underwriting and product feature requirements for a loan to be deemed a QM. Within those regulations, the CFPB created a special exemption for the GSEs that is generally referred to as the “QM patch,” which allows any GSE-eligible loan to be deemed a QM. The QM patch effectively provides QM designation for GSE eligible loans that have a debt-to-income ratio in excess of 43%, which represents a meaningful portion of the loans currently purchased by the GSEs. Without the QM patch or an alternative, loans with debt-to-income ratios above 43% would not be designated as QMs unless they were insured by a federal agency such as the FHA or VA, which have each adopted their own QM definition that does not currently have a debt-to-income ratio limitation. In October 2020, the CFPB issued a rule providing that the QM patch will expire on the earlier of the implementation of a final amendment revising the “General QM loan” definition or upon the date that the GSEs exit conservatorship. On December 11, 2020, the CFPB issued final General QM loan rules replacing the debt-to-income ratio limitations with a price-based approach, which may have significant implications for the U.S. housing and mortgage market since we do not know how the credit markets and borrowers will respond to the new regulations. Failure to establish effective operational
procedures to comply with the final General QM loan rules could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.
We and/or PLS are required to have various Agency approvals and state licenses in order to conduct our business and there is no assurance we and/or PLS will be able to obtain or maintain those Agency approvals or state licenses.
Because we and PLS are not federally chartered depository institutions, neither we nor PLS benefits from exemptions to state mortgage lending, loan servicing or debt collection licensing and regulatory requirements. Accordingly, PLS is licensed, or is taking steps to become licensed, in those jurisdictions, and for those activities, where it is required to be licensed and believes it is cost effective and appropriate to become licensed.
Our failure or the failure by PLS to obtain any necessary licenses, comply with applicable licensing laws or satisfy the various requirements to maintain them over time could restrict our direct business activities, result in litigation or civil and other monetary penalties, or cause us to default under certain of our lending arrangements, any of which could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We and PLS are also required to hold the Agency approvals in order to sell loans to the Agencies and service such loans on their behalf. Our failure, or the failure of PLS, to satisfy the various requirements necessary to maintain such Agency approvals over time would also restrict our direct business activities and could adversely impact our business.
In addition, we and PLS are subject to periodic examinations by federal and state regulators, which can result in increases in our administrative costs, and we or PLS may be required to pay substantial penalties imposed by these regulators due to compliance errors, or we or PLS may lose our licenses. Negative publicity or fines and penalties incurred in one jurisdiction may cause investigations or other actions by regulators in other jurisdictions and could adversely impact our business.
Our or PLS’ inability to meet certain net worth and liquidity requirements imposed by the Agencies could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operation.
We and our servicers are subject to minimum financial eligibility requirements for Agency mortgage sellers/servicers and MBS issuers, as applicable. These eligibility requirements align the minimum financial requirements for mortgage sellers/servicers and MBS issuers to do business with the Agencies. These minimum financial requirements, which are described in Liquidity and Capital Resources, include net worth, capital ratio and/or liquidity criteria in order to set a minimum level of capital needed to adequately absorb potential losses and a minimum amount of liquidity needed to service Agency loans and MBS and cover the associated financial obligations and risks.
In order to meet these minimum financial requirements, we and PLS are required to maintain rather than spend or invest, cash and cash equivalents in amounts that may adversely affect our or its business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders, and this could significantly impede us and PLS, as non-bank mortgage lenders, from growing our respective businesses and place us at a competitive disadvantage in relation to federally chartered banks and certain other financial institutions. To the extent that such minimum financial requirements are not met, the Agencies may suspend or terminate Agency approval or certain agreements with us or PLS, which could cause us or PLS to cross default under financing arrangements and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Market and Financial Risks
A prolonged economic slowdown, recession or declining real estate values could materially and adversely affect us.
The risks associated with our investments are more acute during periods of economic slowdown or recession, especially if these periods are accompanied by high unemployment and declining real estate values. The ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, a weakening economy, high unemployment and declining real estate values significantly increase the likelihood that borrowers will default on their debt service obligations and that we will incur losses on our investments in the event of a default on a particular investment because the fair value of any collateral we foreclose upon may be insufficient to cover the full amount of such investment or may require a significant amount of time to realize. These factors may also increase the likelihood of re-default rates even after we have completed loan modifications. Any period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses could adversely affect the net interest income generated from our portfolio and our ability to make and finance future investments, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Difficult conditions in the mortgage, real estate and financial markets and the economy generally may adversely affect the performance and fair value of our investments.
The success of our business strategies and our results of operations are materially affected by current conditions in the mortgage markets, the financial markets and the economy generally. Continuing concerns over factors including the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, deflation, unemployment, personal and business income taxes, healthcare, energy costs, domestic political issues, climate change, the availability and cost of credit, the mortgage markets and the real estate markets have contributed to increased volatility and unclear expectations for the economy and markets going forward. The mortgage markets have been and continue to be affected by changes in the lending landscape, defaults, credit losses and significant liquidity concerns. A destabilization of the real estate and mortgage markets or deterioration in these markets may adversely affect the performance and fair value of our investments, reduce our loan production volume, lower our margins, reduce the profitability of servicing mortgages or adversely affect our ability to sell loans that we acquire, either at a profit or at all. Any of the foregoing could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
A disruption in the MBS market could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
In our correspondent production activities, we deliver newly originated Agency-eligible loans that we acquire to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to be pooled into Agency MBS securities or transfer government loans that we acquire to PLS, which pools them into Ginnie Mae MBS securities. In addition, due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the Federal Reserve has enacted monetary policies to purchase MBS on the open market that has and may continue to impact the liquidity of the MBS market. Any significant disruption or period of illiquidity in the general MBS market would directly affect our liquidity because no existing alternative secondary market would likely be able to accommodate on a timely basis the volume of loans that we typically acquire and sell in any given period. Accordingly, if the MBS market experiences a period of illiquidity, we might be prevented from selling the loans that we acquire into the secondary market in a timely manner or at favorable prices or we may be required to repay a portion of the debt securing these assets, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which may limit our financial and operating activities, expose us to substantial increases in costs due to interest rate fluctuations, expose us to the risk of default under our debt obligations and may adversely affect our ability to incur additional debt to fund future needs.
As of December 31, 2020, we had $8.7 billion of total indebtedness outstanding (approximately $8.5 billion of which was secured) and up to $4.6 billion of additional capacity under our secured borrowings and other secured debt financing arrangements. This substantial indebtedness and any future indebtedness we incur could have adverse consequences and, for example, could:
•
require us to dedicate a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, thereby reducing the funds available for operations, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes;
•
make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including any restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our other indebtedness which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness;
•
subject us to increased sensitivity to interest rate increases;
•
make us more vulnerable to economic downturns, adverse industry conditions or catastrophic external events, including the COVID-19 pandemic;
•
limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures;
•
reduce our flexibility in planning for or responding to changing business, industry and economic conditions or restrict our ability to carry on activities important to our growth; and/or
•
place us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors that have relatively less debt than we have.
In addition, our substantial level of indebtedness could limit our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms, or at all, for working capital and general corporate purposes. Our liquidity needs vary significantly from time to time and may be affected by general economic conditions, industry trends, performance and many other factors outside our control.
We finance our investments with borrowings, which may materially and adversely affect our return on our investments and may reduce cash available for distribution to our shareholders.
We currently leverage and, to the extent available, intend to continue to leverage our investments through borrowings, the level of which may vary based on our investment portfolio characteristics and market conditions. We generally finance our investments with relatively short-term facilities until a sufficient portfolio is accumulated or longer-term financing becomes available. As a result, we are subject to the risks that we would not be able to obtain suitable non-recourse long-term financing or otherwise acquire, during the period that any short-term facilities are available, sufficient eligible assets or securities to maximize the efficiency of a securitization. We also bear the risk that we would not be able to obtain new short-term facilities or to renew any short-term facilities after they expire should we need more time to obtain long-term financing or seek and acquire sufficient eligible assets or securities for a securitization. If we are unable to obtain and renew short-term facilities or to consummate securitizations to finance our investments on a long-term basis, we may be required to seek other forms of potentially less attractive financing or to liquidate assets at an inopportune time or unfavorable price.
Specifically, we have financed certain of our investments through repurchase agreements, pursuant to which we sell securities (including securities we retain through our CRT investments) or loans to lenders (i.e., repurchase agreement counterparties) and receive cash from the lenders. We currently finance our CRT investments through a combination of term notes and repurchase agreements. Unlike MBS and other securities we finance under repurchase agreements, our CRT investment is illiquid in nature and may be subject to greater fluctuations in fair value. Further, the size of our CRT investment makes it a greater likelihood that any margin call could be material in nature, and our inability to satisfy any such margin call or liquidate the underlying collateral may result in significant losses to us.
We also currently finance certain of our MSRs and ESS under secured financing arrangements. Our Freddie Mac MSRs are pledged to secure borrowings under a loan and security agreement, while our Fannie Mae MSRs are pledged to a special purpose entity, which issues variable funding notes and term notes that are secured by such Fannie Mae MSRs and repaid through the cash flows received by the special purpose entity as the lender under a repurchase agreement with PMC. Our Ginnie Mae ESS is sold under a repurchase agreement to PLS as part of a structured finance transaction. PLS, in turn, pledges such ESS along with all of its Ginnie Mae MSRs under a repurchase agreement to a special purpose entity, which issues variable funding notes and term notes that are secured by such Ginnie Mae assets. The notes are repaid through the cash flows received by the special purpose entity as the lender under its repurchase agreement with PLS, which, in turn, receives cash flows from us under our repurchase agreement secured by the Ginnie Mae ESS. In each case, a decrease in the value of the pledged collateral can result in a margin call. Any such margin call may require that we liquidate assets at a disadvantageous time or provide that the secured parties may sell the collateral, either of which could result in significant losses to us. Each of the secured financing arrangements pursuant to which we finance MSRs and ESS is further subject to the terms of an acknowledgement agreement with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac or Ginnie Mae, as applicable, pursuant to which our and the secured parties’ rights are subordinate in all respects to the rights of the applicable Agency. Any extinguishment of our and the secured parties’ rights in the related collateral could result in significant losses to us.
We may in the future utilize other sources of borrowings, including term loans, bank credit facilities and structured financing arrangements, among others. The amount of leverage we employ varies depending on the asset class being financed, our available capital, our ability to obtain and access financing arrangements with lenders and the lenders’ and rating agencies’ estimate of, among other things, the stability of our investment portfolio’s cash flow.
Our return on our investments and cash available for distribution to our shareholders may be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions increase the cost of our financing relative to the income that can be derived from the investments acquired. Our debt service payments also reduce cash flow available for distribution to shareholders. In the event we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, we risk the loss of some or all of our assets to foreclosure or sale to satisfy the obligations.
Our financing agreements contain financial and restrictive covenants that could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our businesses.
The lenders under our repurchase agreements require us and/or our subsidiaries to comply with various financial covenants, including those relating to tangible net worth, profitability and our ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth. Our lenders also require us to maintain minimum amounts of cash or cash equivalents sufficient to maintain a specified liquidity position. If we are unable to maintain these liquidity levels, we could be forced to sell additional investments at a loss and our financial condition could deteriorate rapidly.
Our existing financing agreements also contain certain events of default and other financial and non-financial covenants and restrictions that impact our flexibility to determine our operating policies and investment strategies. If we default on our obligations under a credit or financing agreement, fail to comply with certain covenants and restrictions or breach our representations and are unable to cure, the lender may be able to terminate the transaction or its commitments, accelerate any amounts outstanding, require us to post additional collateral or repurchase the assets, and/or cease entering into any other credit transactions with us.
Because our financing agreements typically contain cross-default provisions, a default that occurs under any one agreement could allow the lenders under our other agreements to also declare a default, thereby exposing us to a variety of lender remedies, such as those described above, and potential losses arising therefrom. Any losses that we incur on our credit and financing agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
As the servicer of the assets subject to our repurchase agreements, PLS is also subject to various financial covenants, including those relating to tangible net worth, liquidity, profitability and its ratio of total liabilities to tangible net worth. PLS’ failure to comply with any of these covenants would generally result in a servicer termination event or event of default under one or more of our repurchase agreements. Thus, in addition to relying upon PCM to manage our financial covenants, we rely upon PLS to manage its own financial covenants in order to ensure our compliance with our repurchase agreements and our continued access to liquidity and capital. A servicer termination event or event of default resulting from PLS’ breach of its financial or other covenants could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to shareholders.
We may not be able to raise the debt or equity capital required to finance our assets and grow our businesses.
The growth of our businesses requires continued access to debt and equity capital that may or may not be available on favorable terms or at the desired times, or at all. In addition, we invest in certain assets, including MSRs and ESS, for which financing has historically been difficult to obtain. Our inability to continue to maintain debt financing for MSRs and ESS could require us to seek equity capital that may be more costly or unavailable to us.
We are also dependent on a limited number of banking institutions that extend us credit on terms that we have determined to be commercially reasonable. These banking institutions are subject to their own regulatory supervision, liquidity and capital requirements, risk management frameworks and risk thresholds and tolerances, any of which may change materially and negatively impact their willingness to extend credit to us specifically or mortgage lenders and servicers generally. Such actions may increase our cost of capital and limit or otherwise eliminate our access to capital, in which case our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders would be materially and adversely affected.
In addition, our ability to finance ESS relating to Ginnie Mae MSRs is currently dependent on pass through financing we obtain through PLS, which retains the MSRs associated with the ESS we acquire. After our initial acquisition of ESS, we then finance the acquired ESS with PLS under a repurchase agreement, and PLS, in turn, re-pledges the ESS (along with the related MSRs it retains) under a master repurchase agreement with a special purpose entity, which issues variable funding notes and term notes that are secured by such Ginnie Mae MSRs and ESS and repaid through the cash received by the special purpose entity as the lender under a repurchase agreement with PLS. There can be no assurance this pass through financing will continue to be available to us.
This financing arrangement also subjects us to the credit risk of PLS. To the extent PLS does not apply our payments of principal and interest under the repurchase agreement to the allocable portion of its borrowings under the master repurchase agreement, or to the extent PLS otherwise defaults under the master repurchase agreement, our ESS would be at a risk of total loss. In addition, we provide a guarantee for the amount of borrowings under the master repurchase agreement that are allocable to the pass through financing of our ESS. In the event we are unable to satisfy our obligations under the guaranty following a default by PLS, this could cause us to default under other financing arrangements and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We can provide no assurance that we will have access to any debt or equity capital on favorable terms or at the desired times, or at all. Our inability to raise such capital or obtain financing on favorable terms could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to shareholders.
In addition, we have been authorized to repurchase up to $300 million of our common shares pursuant to a share repurchase program approved by our board of trustees. As of December 31, 2020, we had $46.1 million remaining under the current board of trustees authorization, and we may continue to repurchase shares to the extent we believe it is in the Company’s best interest to do so. Increased activity in our share repurchase program will have the effect of reducing our common shares outstanding, market value and shareholders’ equity, any or all of which could adversely affect the assessment by our lenders, credit providers or other counterparties regarding our net worth and, therefore, negatively impact our ability to raise new capital.
Interest rate fluctuations could significantly decrease our results of operations and cash flows and the fair value of our investments.
Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary and tax policies, domestic and international economic and political considerations and other factors beyond our control. Interest rate fluctuations present a variety of risks to our
operations. Our primary interest rate exposures relate to the yield on our investments, their fair values and the financing cost of our debt, as well as any derivative financial instruments that we utilize for hedging purposes.
Changes in interest rates affect our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest earning investments and the interest expense we incur in financing these investments. Interest rate fluctuations resulting in our interest expense exceeding interest income may result in operating losses for us. An increase in prevailing interest rates could adversely affect the volume of newly originated mortgages available for purchase in our correspondent production activities.
Changes in the level of interest rates also may affect our ability to make investments, the fair value of our investments (including our pipeline of loan commitments) and any related hedging instruments, the value of newly originated loans acquired through our correspondent production segment, and our ability to realize gains from the disposition of assets. Changes in interest rates may also affect borrower default rates and may impact our ability to refinance or modify loans and/or to sell REO. Decreasing interest rates may cause a large number of borrowers to refinance, which may result in the loss of mortgage servicing business and write-downs of the associated MSRs and ESS. Any such scenario could materially and adversely affect us.
We are subject to risks associated with the expected discontinuation of LIBOR.
In July 2017, the head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”), which regulates the LIBOR administrator, announced the phase out of the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021. However, for U.S. dollar LIBOR, it now appears that the relevant date may be deferred to June 30, 2023 for the most common rates (overnight and one, three, six and 12 months). The LIBOR administrator has published a consultation regarding its intention to cease publication of U.S. dollar LIBOR as of June 30, 2023 (instead of December 31, 2021, as previously expected) based on continued rate submissions from banks. The FCA and other regulators have stated that they welcome the LIBOR administrator’s action. An extension to 2023 would mean that many legacy U.S. dollar LIBOR contracts would terminate before related LIBOR rates cease to be published. However, the same regulators emphasized that, despite any continued publication of U.S. dollar LIBOR through June 30, 2023, no new contracts using U.S. dollar LIBOR should be entered into after December 31, 2021. Moreover, the LIBOR administrator’s consultation also relates to the LIBOR administrator’s intention to cease publication of non-U.S. dollar LIBOR after December 31, 2021. There is no assurance that LIBOR will continue to be published until any particular date.
To identify a set of alternative interest reference rates to LIBOR, the U.S. Federal Reserve established the Alternative Reference Rates Committee (“ARRC”), a U.S. based working group composed of large U.S. financial institutions. ARRC has identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate as its preferred replacement for LIBOR, but it is unclear how their preference may impact the risks we maintain to the cessation of LIBOR, or if other benchmarks may emerge as a replacement for LIBOR.
The expected and actual discontinuation of LIBOR could have a significant impact on the financial markets and our business activities. We rely on financing arrangements and liabilities under which our cost of borrowing is based on LIBOR. We also hold assets and instruments used to hedge the value of certain assets that depend for their value on LIBOR. We anticipate significant challenges as it relates to the transition away from LIBOR for all of our LIBOR-based assets, financing arrangements, and liabilities, regardless whether their maturity dates fall before or after the anticipated discontinuation date after December 31, 2021 or June 30, 2023, as applicable. These challenges will include, but will not be limited to, amending agreements underlying our existing and/or new LIBOR-based assets, financing arrangements, and liabilities with appropriate fallback language prior to the discontinuation of LIBOR, and the possibility that LIBOR may deteriorate as a viable benchmark to ensure a fair cost of funds for our LIBOR-linked liabilities, interest income for our LIBOR-linked assets, and/or the determination of fair value for certain of our assets and hedges using LIBOR as a benchmark rate or used to develop a market discount rate. In addition, the transition to using any new benchmark rate or other financial metric may require changes to existing transaction data, products, systems, models, operations and pricing processes.
We also anticipate additional risks to our current business activities as they relate to the discontinuation of LIBOR. We service LIBOR-based adjustable rate mortgages (“ARMs”) for which the underlying mortgage notes incorporate fallback provisions, but we cannot anticipate the response of our borrowers or note holders to such risks. We also rely on financial models that incorporate LIBOR into their methodologies for financial planning and reporting.
Due to these risks, we expect both the impending and actual discontinuation of LIBOR could materially affect our interest expense and earnings, our cost of capital, and the fair value of certain of our assets and the instruments we use to hedge their value. For the same reason, we also can provide no assurance that changes in the value of our hedge instruments will effectively offset changes in the value of the assets they are expected to hedge. Furthermore, the transition away from widely used benchmark rates like LIBOR could result in customers or other market participants challenging the determination of their interest payments, disputing the interpretations or implementation of contract “fallback” provisions and other transition related changes. Our inability to manage these risks effectively may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.
We are subject to market risk and declines in credit quality and changes in credit spreads, which may adversely affect investment income and cause realized and unrealized losses.
We are exposed to the credit markets and subject to the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse changes in credit spreads. Adverse changes to these spreads may occur due to changes in fiscal policy, the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the economic climate, the liquidity of a market or market segment, insolvency or financial distress of key market makers or participants, or changes in market perceptions of credit worthiness and/or risk tolerance.
We are subject to risks associated with potential declines in our credit quality, credit quality related to specific issuers or specific industries, and a general weakening in the economy, all of which are typically reflected through credit spreads. Credit spread is the additional yield on fixed income securities above the risk-free rate (typically referenced as the yield on U.S. Treasury securities) that market participants require to compensate them for assuming credit, liquidity and/or prepayment risks. Credit spreads vary (i.e., increase or decrease) in response to the market’s perception of risk and liquidity in a specific issuer or specific sector and are influenced by the credit ratings, and the reliability of those ratings, published by external rating agencies. A decline in the quality of our investment portfolio as a result of adverse economic conditions or otherwise could cause additional realized and unrealized losses on our investments.
A decline in credit spreads could have an adverse effect on our investment income as we invest cash in new investments that may earn less than the portfolio’s average yield. An increase in credit spreads could have an adverse effect on the value of our investment portfolio by decreasing the fair values of the credit sensitive investments in our investment portfolio. Any such scenario could materially and adversely affect us.
Hedging against interest rate exposure may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows.
We pursue hedging strategies in a manner that is consistent with the REIT qualification requirements to reduce our exposure to interest rates. The strategies are intended to mitigate the effect of interest rate fluctuations on the fair value of the assets at our TRS as well as debt used to acquire or carry real estate assets at entities other than our TRS. To manage this price risk, we use derivative financial instruments acquired with the intention of moderating the risk that changes in market interest rates will result in unfavorable changes in the fair value of our assets, primarily prepayment exposure on our MSR investments as well as IRLCs and our inventory of loans held for sale as well as MBS and CRTs. For example, with respect to our IRLCs and inventory of loans held for sale, we may use MBS forward sale contracts to lock in the price at which we will sell the mortgage loans or resulting MBS, and MBS put options to mitigate the risk of our IRLCs not closing at the rate we expect. In addition, with respect to our MSRs, we may use MBS forward purchase and sale contracts to address exposures to smaller interest rate shifts with Treasury and interest rate swap futures, and use options and swaptions to achieve target coverage levels for larger interest rate shocks.
Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the risks being mitigated, the level of interest rates, the type of investments held, and other changing market conditions such as those resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. Hedging instruments involve risk because they often are not traded on regulated exchanges, guaranteed by an exchange or its clearing house, or regulated by any U.S. or foreign governmental authorities, and our interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things:
•
interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates;
•
available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought;
•
the duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset;
•
the credit quality of the hedging counterparty owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; and
•
the hedging counterparty owing the money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay.
•
the federal tax regulations applicable to REITs limit our hedge activity outside of the TRS to hedging interest rate fluctuations with respect to debt used to acquire or carry real estate assets.
In addition, we may fail to recalculate, re-adjust and execute hedges in an efficient manner. Any hedging activity, which is intended to limit losses, may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Therefore, while we may enter into such transactions seeking to reduce interest rate risk, unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in worse overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. A liquid secondary market may not exist for a hedging instrument purchased or sold, and we may be required to maintain a position until exercise or expiration, which could result in significant losses. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in hedging strategies and price movements in the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not establish an effective correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio positions or liabilities being hedged. Any
such ineffective correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. Numerous regulations currently apply to hedging and any new regulations or changes in existing regulations may significantly increase our administrative or compliance costs. Our derivative agreements generally provide for the daily mark to market of our hedge exposures. If a hedge counterparty determines that its exposure to us exceeds its exposure threshold, it may initiate a margin call and require us to post collateral. If we are unable to satisfy a margin call, we would be in default of our agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.
We utilize derivative financial instruments, which could subject us to risk of loss.
We utilize derivative financial instruments for hedging purposes, which may include swaps, options and futures. However, the prices of derivative financial instruments, including futures and options, are highly volatile, as are payments made pursuant to swap agreements. As a result, the cost of utilizing derivatives may reduce our income that would otherwise be available for distribution to shareholders or for other purposes, and the derivative instruments that we utilize may fail to effectively hedge our positions. We are also subject to credit risk with regard to the counterparties involved in the derivative transactions.
The use of derivative instruments is also subject to an increasing number of laws and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act and other federal regulations. These laws and regulations are complex, compliance with them may be costly and time consuming, and our failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits or government actions and damage our reputation, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We may change our investment strategies and policies without shareholder consent, and this may materially and adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
PCM is authorized by our board of trustees to follow very broad investment policies and, therefore, it has great latitude in determining the types of assets that are proper investments for us, as well as the individual investment decisions. In the future, PCM may make investments with lower rates of return than those anticipated under current market conditions and/or may make investments with greater risks to achieve those anticipated returns. Our board of trustees will periodically review our investment policies and our investment portfolio but will not review or approve each proposed investment by PCM unless it falls outside our investment policies or constitutes a related party transaction.
In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our board of trustees will rely primarily on information provided to it by PCM. Furthermore, PCM may use complex strategies, and transactions entered into by PCM may be costly, difficult or impossible to unwind by the time they are reviewed by our board of trustees. We also may change our investment strategies and policies and targeted asset classes at any time without the consent of our shareholders, and this could result in our making investments that are different in type from, and possibly riskier than our current investments or the investments currently contemplated. Changes in our investment strategies and policies and targeted asset classes may expose us to new risks or increase our exposure to interest rate risk, counterparty risk, default risk and real estate market fluctuations, and this could materially and adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Our correspondent production activities could subject us to increased risk of loss.
In our correspondent production activities, we acquire newly originated loans from mortgage lenders and sell or securitize those loans to or through the Agencies or other third party investors. We also sell the resulting securities into the MBS markets. However, there can be no assurance that PLS will continue to be successful in operating this business on our behalf or that we will continue to be able to capitalize on these opportunities on favorable terms or at all. In particular, we have committed, and expect to continue to commit, capital and other resources to this operation; however, PLS may not be able to continue to source sufficient asset acquisition opportunities to justify the expenditure of such capital and other resources. In the event that PLS is unable to continue to source sufficient opportunities for this operation, there can be no assurance that we would be able to acquire such assets on favorable terms or at all, or that such assets, if acquired, would be profitable to us. In addition, we may be unable to finance the acquisition of these assets and/or may be unable to sell the resulting MBS in the secondary mortgage market on favorable terms or at all. We are also subject to the risk that the fair value of the acquired loans may decrease prior to their disposition. The occurrence of any of these risks could adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
The success and growth of our correspondent production activities will depend, in part, upon PLS’ ability to adapt to and implement technological changes and to successfully develop, implement and protect its proprietary technology.
Our success in the mortgage industry is highly dependent upon the ability of our servicer, PLS, to adapt to constant technological changes, successfully enhance its current information technology solutions through the use of third-party and proprietary technologies, and introduce new solutions and services that more efficiently address our needs.
Our correspondent production activities are currently dependent, in part, upon the ability of PLS to effectively interface with our mortgage lenders and other third parties and to efficiently process loan fundings and closings. The correspondent production process is becoming more dependent upon technological advancement, and our correspondent sellers expect and require certain conveniences and service levels. In this regard, PLS has transitioned to a workflow-driven, cloud-based loan acquisition platform. While we anticipate that PLS’ cloud-based system will increase scalability and produce other efficiencies, there can be no assurance that PLS’ cloud-based system will prove to be effective or that such correspondent sellers will easily adapt to PLS’ cloud-based system. Any failure to effectively or timely transition to the new system and meet our expectations and the expectations of our correspondent sellers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The development, implementation and protection of these technologies and becoming more proficient with it may also require significant capital expenditures by PLS. As these technological advancements increase in the future, PLS will need to further develop and invest in these technological capabilities to remain competitive. Moreover, litigation has become required for PLS to protect its technologies and such litigation is expected to be time consuming and result in substantial costs and diversion of PLS resources. Any failure of PLS to develop, implement, execute or maintain its technological capabilities and any litigation costs associated with protection of its technologies could adversely affect PLS and its ability to effectively perform its loan production and servicing activities on our behalf, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We are not an approved Ginnie Mae issuer and an increase in the percentage or amount of government loans we acquire could be detrimental to our results of operations.
Government-insured or guaranteed loans that are typically securitized through the Ginnie Mae program accounted for 37% of our purchases in 2020. We are not approved as a Ginnie Mae issuer and rely heavily on PLS to acquire such loans from us. As a result, we are unable to produce or own Ginnie Mae MSRs and we earn significantly less income in connection with our acquisition of government loans as opposed to conventional loans. Further, market demand for government loans over conventional loans may increase or PLS may offer pricing to our approved correspondent sellers for government loans that is more competitive in the market than pricing for conventional loans, the result of which may be our acquisition of a greater proportion or amount of government loans. Any significant increase in the percentage or amount of government loans we acquire could adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Risks Related to Our Investments
Our retention of credit risk underlying loans we sell to the GSEs is inherently uncertain and exposes us to significant risk of loss.
In conjunction with our correspondent business, we have entered into CRT arrangements with Fannie Mae, whereby we sell pools of loans into Fannie Mae-guaranteed securitizations while retaining a portion of the credit risk and an interest-only (“IO”) ownership interest in such loans or purchasing Agency securities that absorb losses incurred by such loans. Our retention of credit risk subjects us to risks associated with delinquency and foreclosure similar to the risks associated with owning the underlying loans, and exposes us to risk of loss greater than the risks associated with selling the loans to Fannie Mae without the retention of such credit risk. Delinquency can result from many factors including unemployment, weak economic conditions or real estate values, or catastrophic events such as man-made or natural disaster, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, war or terrorist attack. Further, the risks associated with delinquency and foreclosure may in some instances be greater than the risks associated with owning the underlying loans because the structure of certain of the CRT Agreements provides that we may be required to realize losses in the event of delinquency or foreclosure even where there is ultimately no loss realized with respect to the underlying loan (e.g., as a result of a borrower’s re-performance). We are also exposed to market risk and, as a result of prevailing market conditions or the economy generally, may be required to recognize losses associated with adverse changes to the fair value of the CRT Agreements. Any loss we incur may be significant and may reduce distributions to our shareholders and materially and adversely affect the market value of our common shares.
The Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”) has instructed government-sponsored entities to gradually wind down new lender risk share transactions such as CRT investments as of the end of 2020. If we are unable to find a suitable alternative
investment to investing in CRTs with similar returns, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
The Federal Housing Finance Agency (“FHFA”) has instructed government-sponsored entities to gradually wind down new lender risk share transactions such as CRT investments as of the end of 2020 and accordingly we do not expect to make any new CRT investments. As of December 31, 2020, we continued to hold net CRT-related investments (comprised of deposits securing CRT arrangements, CRT derivatives, CRT strips, interest-only security payable) totaling $2.6 billion. If we are unable to find suitable alternative investments comparable to CRTs, our business, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
A portion of our investments is in the form of loans, and the loans in which we invest subject us to costs and losses arising from delinquency and foreclosure, as well as the risks associated with residential real estate and residential real estate-related investments, any of which could result in losses to us.
We have invested in performing and nonperforming residential loans and, through our correspondent production business, newly originated prime credit quality residential loans. Residential loans are typically secured by single-family residential property and are subject to risks and costs associated with delinquency and foreclosure and the resulting risks of loss.
Our investments in loans also subject us to the risks of residential real estate and residential real estate-related investments, including, among others: (i) declines in the value of residential real estate; (ii) risks related to general and local economic conditions, including those resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; (iii) lack of available mortgage funding for borrowers to refinance or sell their homes; (iv) overbuilding; (v) increases in property taxes and operating expenses; (vi) changes in zoning laws; (vii) costs resulting from the clean-up of, and liability to third parties for damages resulting from, environmental problems, such as indoor mold; (viii) casualty or condemnation losses; (ix) uninsured damages from floods, earthquakes or other natural disasters; (x) limitations on and variations in rents; (xi) fluctuations in interest rates; (xii) fraud by borrowers, originators and/or sellers of loans; (xiii) undetected deficiencies and/or inaccuracies in underlying loan documentation and calculations; and (xiv) failure of the borrower to adequately maintain the property. To the extent that assets underlying our investments are concentrated geographically, by property type or in certain other respects, we may be subject to certain of the foregoing risks to a greater extent.
Additionally, we may be required to foreclose on a loan and such actions may subject us to greater concentration of the risks of the residential real estate markets and risks related to the ownership and management of real property. In the event of a foreclosure, we may assume direct ownership of the underlying real estate. The liquidation proceeds upon sale of such real estate may not be sufficient to recover our investment in the loan, resulting in a loss to us. In addition, the foreclosure process may be lengthy and expensive, and any delays or costs involved in the effectuation of a foreclosure of the loan or a liquidation of the underlying property may further reduce the proceeds and thus increase the loss.
In the event of the bankruptcy of a loan borrower, the loan to such borrower will be deemed to be secured only to the extent of the value of the underlying collateral at the time of bankruptcy (as determined by the bankruptcy court), and the lien securing the loan will be subject to the avoidance powers of the bankruptcy trustee or debtor-in-possession to the extent the lien is unenforceable under state law.
Our acquisition of mortgage servicing rights exposes us to significant risks.
MSRs arise from contractual agreements between us and the investors (or their agents) in mortgage securities and loans that we service on their behalf. We generally acquire MSRs in connection with our sale of loans to the Agencies where we assume the obligation to service such loans on their behalf. Any MSRs we acquire are initially recorded at fair value on our balance sheet. The determination of the fair value of MSRs requires our management to make numerous estimates and assumptions. Such estimates and assumptions include, without limitation, estimates of future cash flows associated with MSRs based upon assumptions involving interest rates as well as the prepayment rates, delinquencies and foreclosure rates of the underlying serviced loans as well as the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The ultimate realization of the MSRs may be materially different than the values of such MSRs as may be reflected in our consolidated balance sheet as of any particular date. The use of different estimates or assumptions in connection with the valuation of these assets could produce materially different fair values for such assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Accordingly, there may be material uncertainty about the fair value of any MSRs we acquire.
Prepayment speeds significantly affect MSRs. Prepayment speed is the measurement of how quickly borrowers pay down the unpaid principal balance of their loans or how quickly loans are otherwise brought current, modified, liquidated or charged off. We base the price we pay for MSRs on, among other things, our projection of the cash flows from the related pool of loans. Our expectation of prepayment speeds is a significant assumption underlying those cash flow projections. If prepayment speed expectations increase significantly, the fair value of the MSRs could decline and we may be required to record a non-cash charge,
which would have a negative impact on our financial results. Furthermore, a significant increase in prepayment speeds could materially reduce the ultimate cash flows we receive from MSRs, and we could ultimately receive substantially less than what we paid for such assets. Moreover, delinquency rates have a significant impact on the valuation of any MSRs. An increase in delinquencies generally results in lower revenue because typically we only collect servicing fees from Agencies or mortgage owners for performing loans. Our expectation of delinquencies is also a significant assumption underlying our cash flow projections. If delinquencies are significantly greater than we expect, the estimated fair value of the MSRs could be diminished. When the estimated fair value of MSRs is reduced, we could suffer a loss, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Changes in interest rates are a key driver of the performance of MSRs. Historically, the fair value of MSRs has increased when interest rates rise and decreased when interest rates decline due to the effect those changes in interest rates have on prepayment estimates. We may pursue, in a manner that is consistent with our qualification as a REIT, various hedging strategies to seek to reduce our exposure to adverse changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates. Our hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level and volatility of interest rates, the type of assets held and other changing market conditions. Interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us. To the extent we do not utilize derivative financial instruments to hedge against changes in fair value of MSRs or the derivatives we use in our hedging activities do not perform as expected, our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders would be more susceptible to volatility due to changes in the fair value of, or cash flows from, MSRs as interest rates change. Furthermore, MSRs and the related servicing activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations and may be subject to various judicial and administrative decisions imposing various requirements and restrictions on our business. The federal government enacted the CARES Act, which allows borrowers with federally-backed loans to request temporary payment forbearance in response to the increased borrower hardships resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our failure to comply, or the failure of the servicer to comply, with the laws, rules or regulations to which we or they are subject by virtue of ownership of MSRs, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Our acquisition of excess servicing spread (“ESS”) has exposed us to significant risks.
We have previously acquired from PLS the right to receive certain ESS arising from MSRs owned or acquired by PLS. The ESS represents the difference between PLS’ contractual servicing fee with the applicable Agency and a base servicing fee that PLS retains as compensation for servicing or subservicing the related loans pursuant to the applicable servicing contract.
Because the ESS is a component of the related MSR, the risks of owning the ESS are similar to the risks of owning an MSR. We also record our ESS assets at fair value, which is based on many of the same estimates and assumptions used to value our MSR assets, thereby creating the same potential for material differences between the recorded fair value of the ESS and the actual value that is ultimately realized. Also, the performance of our ESS assets are impacted by the same drivers as our MSR assets, namely interest rates, prepayment speeds, delinquency rates and the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Because of the inherent uncertainty in the estimates and assumptions and the potential for significant change in the impact of the drivers, there may be material uncertainty about the fair value of any ESS we acquire, and this could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Further, as a condition to our purchase of the ESS, we were required to subordinate our interests to those of the applicable Agency. To the extent PLS fails to maintain its Agency approvals, such failure could result in PLS’ loss of the applicable MSR in its entirety, thereby extinguishing our interest in the related ESS. With respect to our ESS relating to PLS’ Ginnie Mae MSRs, we sold our interest in such ESS to PLS under a repurchase agreement and PLS, in turn, pledged such ESS along with its interest in all of its Ginnie Mae MSRs to a special purpose entity, which issues variable funding notes and term notes that are secured by such Ginnie Mae assets and repaid through the cash flows received by the special purpose entity as the lender under a repurchase agreement with PLS. Accordingly, our interest in the Ginnie Mae ESS is also subordinated to the rights of an indenture trustee on behalf of the note holders to which the special purpose entity issues its variable funding notes and term notes under an indenture, pursuant to which the indenture trustee has a blanket lien on all of PLS’ Ginnie Mae MSRs (including the ESS we acquired). The indenture trustee, on behalf of the note holders, may liquidate our Ginnie Mae ESS along with the related MSRs to the extent there exists an event of default under the indenture. In the event our ESS is liquidated as a result of certain actions or inactions of PLS, we may be entitled to seek indemnity under the applicable spread acquisition agreement; however, this would be an unsecured claim. In either situation, our loss of the ESS could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We cannot independently protect our MSR or ESS assets from borrower refinancing and are dependent upon PLS to do so for our benefit.
While PLS has agreed pursuant to the terms of an MSR recapture agreement to transfer cash to us in an amount equal to a tiered recapture fee ranging from 30% to 40% of the fair value of the MSRs relating to loans it refinances, we are not independently capable of protecting our MSR assets from borrower refinancing through targeted solicitations to, and origination of, refinance loans for borrowers in our servicing portfolio. Accordingly, unlike traditional mortgage originators and many servicers, we must rely upon PLS to refinance loans in our servicing portfolio that would otherwise be targeted by other lenders. There can be no assurance that PLS will either have or allocate the time and resources required to effectively and efficiently protect our MSR assets. Its failure to do so, or the termination of our MSR recapture agreement, could result in accelerated runoff of our MSR assets, decreasing its fair value and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Similarly, while PLS has agreed pursuant to the terms of our spread acquisition agreements to transfer to us a portion of the ESS relating to loans it refinances, we are not independently capable of protecting our ESS assets from borrower refinancing by other lenders through targeted solicitations to, and origination of, refinance loans for borrowers in our portfolio of ESS. Accordingly, we must also rely upon PLS to refinance these loans that would otherwise be targeted by other lenders. There can be no assurance that PLS will either have or allocate the required time and resources or otherwise be capable of effectively and efficiently soliciting these loans. Its failure to do so, or the termination of our spread acquisition agreements, could result in accelerated repayment of the loans underlying our ESS assets, decreasing their value and adversely impacting our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Investments in subordinated loans and subordinated MBS could subject us to increased risk of losses.
Our investments in subordinated loans or subordinated MBS could subject us to increased risk of losses. In the event a borrower defaults on a subordinated loan and lacks sufficient assets to satisfy such loan, we may lose all or a significant part of our investment. In the event a borrower becomes subject to bankruptcy proceedings, we will not have any recourse to the assets, if any, of the borrower that are not pledged to secure our loan. If a borrower defaults on our subordinated loan or on its senior debt (i.e., a first-lien loan), or in the event of a borrower bankruptcy, our subordinated loan will be satisfied only after all senior debt is paid in full. As a result, we may not recover all or even a significant part of our investment, which could result in losses.
In general, losses on an asset securing a loan included in a securitization will be borne first by the equity holder of the property, then by a cash reserve fund or letter of credit provided by the borrower, if any, and then by the “first loss” subordinated security holder and then by the “second loss” subordinated security holder. In the event of default and the exhaustion of any equity support, reserve fund, letter of credit and any classes of securities junior to those in which we invest, we may not recover all or even a significant part of our investment, which could result in losses.
In addition, if the underlying mortgage portfolio has been serviced ineffectively by the loan servicer or overvalued by the originator, or if the fair values of the assets subsequently decline and, as a result, less collateral is available to satisfy interest and principal payments due on the related MBS, the securities in which we invest may suffer significant losses. The prices of these types of lower credit quality investments are generally more sensitive to adverse actual or perceived economic downturns or individual issuer developments than more highly rated investments. An economic downturn or a projection of an economic downturn, for example, could cause a decline in the price of lower credit quality investments because the ability of obligors to make principal and interest payments or to refinance may be impaired.
The failure of PLS or any other servicer to effectively service our portfolio of MSRs and loans would materially and adversely affect us.
Pursuant to our loan servicing agreement, PLS provides us with primary and special servicing. PLS’ loan servicing activities include collecting principal, interest and escrow account payments, if any, with respect to loans, as well as managing loss mitigation, which may include, among other things, collection activities, loan workouts, modifications, foreclosures, short sales and sales of REO. The ability of PLS or any other servicer or subservicer to effectively service our portfolio of loans is critical to our success, particularly given our large investment in MSRs and our strategy of maximizing the fair value of the distressed loans that we acquire through proprietary loan modification programs, special servicing and other initiatives focused on keeping borrowers in their homes; or in the case of nonperforming loans, effecting property resolutions in a timely, orderly and economically efficient manner. The failure of PLS or any other servicer or subservicer to effectively service our portfolio of MSRs and loans would adversely impact our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
In addition, our ability, through PLS, to promptly foreclose upon defaulted loans and liquidate the underlying real property plays a critical role in our valuation of the assets in which we invest and our expected return on those investments. There are a variety of factors that may inhibit our ability, through PLS, to foreclose upon a loan and liquidate the real property within the time frames we model as part of our valuation process or within the statutes of limitation under applicable state law, and this could increase our cost of doing business and/or diminish the expected return on investment.
We are subject to certain risks associated with investing in real estate and real estate related assets, including risks of loss from adverse weather conditions, man-made or natural disasters, pandemics, such as COVID-19 pandemic, terrorist attacks, and the effects of climate change, which may cause disruptions in our operations and could materially and adversely affect the real estate industry generally and our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.
Weather conditions and man-made or natural disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, pandemics, such as COVID-19 pandemic, floods, droughts, fires and other environmental conditions can adversely impact properties that we own or that collateralize loans we own or service or on which we bear credit risk, as well as properties where we conduct business. Future adverse weather conditions and man-made or natural disasters could also adversely impact the demand for, and value of, our assets, as well as the cost to service or manage such assets, directly impact the value of our assets through damage, destruction or loss, and thereafter materially impact the availability or cost of insurance to protect against these events. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence may cause disruptions in U.S. financial markets and negatively impact the U.S. economy in general.
Potentially adverse consequences of global warming and climate change, including rising sea levels and increased intensity of extreme weather events, could similarly have an impact on our properties and the local economies of certain areas in which we operate. Although we believe our owned real estate and the properties collateralizing our loan assets or underlying our MSR and CRT assets are appropriately covered by insurance, we cannot predict at this time if we or our borrowers will be able to obtain such coverage at a reasonable cost in the future. There also is a risk that one or more of our property insurers may not be able to fulfill their obligations with respect to claims payments due to a deterioration in its financial condition or may even cancel policies due to the increasing costs of providing insurance coverage in certain geographic areas.
Certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, that result from events described above such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, tornados, terrorism, acts of war and pandemics, such as COVID-19 pandemic, may also be uninsurable or not economically insurable. Inflation, changes in building codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, including terrorism or acts of war, also might make the insurance proceeds insufficient to repair or replace a property if it is damaged or destroyed. Under these circumstances, the insurance proceeds received might not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to the affected real property. Any uninsured loss could result in the loss of cash flow from, and the asset value of, the affected property, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations.
Catastrophic events may disrupt our business.
Our corporate headquarters are located in Westlake Village, California and we have additional locations around the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area and elsewhere in the State of California. Many areas of California, including the immediate area around our corporate headquarters, have experienced extensive damage and property loss due to a series of large wildfires in the past several years. California and the other states in which we operate are also prone to other types of natural disasters. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane, or catastrophic event such as fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber attack, pandemic, war, or terrorist attack, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure significant business interruptions, reputational harm, delays in servicing our customers and working with our partners, interruptions in the availability of our technology and systems, breaches of data security, and loss of critical data, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future operating results.
Many of our investments are unrated or, where any credit ratings are assigned to our investments, they will be subject to ongoing evaluations and revisions and we can provide no assurance that those ratings will not be downgraded.
Many of our current investments are not, and many of our future investments will not be, rated by any rating agency. Therefore, PCM’s assessment of the fair value and pricing of our investments may be difficult and the accuracy of such assessment is inherently uncertain. However, certain of our investments may be rated. If rating agencies assign a lower-than expected rating or reduce or withdraw, or indicate that they may reduce or withdraw, their ratings of our investments in the future, the fair value of these investments could significantly decline, which would materially and adversely affect the fair value of our investment portfolio and could result in losses upon disposition or the failure of borrowers to satisfy their debt service obligations to us.
We may be materially and adversely affected by risks affecting borrowers or the asset or property types in which our investments may be concentrated at any given time, as well as from unfavorable changes in the related geographic regions.
Our assets are not subject to any geographic, diversification or concentration limitations except that we will be concentrated in mortgage-related investments. Accordingly, our investment portfolio may be concentrated by geography, asset, property type and/or borrower, increasing the risk of loss to us if the particular concentration in our portfolio is subject to greater risks or is undergoing adverse developments. In addition, adverse conditions in the areas where the properties securing or otherwise underlying our investments are located (including business layoffs or downsizing, industry slowdowns, changing demographics and other factors) and local real estate conditions (such as oversupply or reduced demand) may have an adverse effect on the value of our investments. A material decline in the demand for real estate in these areas may materially and adversely affect us. Concentration or a lack of diversification can increase the correlation of non-performance and foreclosure risks among our investments.
Many of our investments are illiquid and we may not be able to adjust our portfolio in response to changes in economic and other conditions.
Our investments in distressed loans, MSRs, ESS, CRT arrangements, securities and loans held in a consolidated variable interest entity may be illiquid. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible to obtain or validate third-party pricing on the investments we purchase. Illiquid investments typically experience greater price volatility, as a ready market does not exist, and can be more difficult to value. The contractual restrictions on transfer or the illiquidity of our investments may make it difficult for us to sell such investments if the need or desire arises, which could impair our ability to satisfy margin calls or certain REIT tests. In addition, if we are required to liquidate all or a portion of our portfolio quickly, we may realize significantly less than the recorded value, or may not be able to obtain any liquidation proceeds at all, thus exposing us to a material or total loss.
Fair values of many of our investments are estimates and the realization of reduced values from our recorded estimates may materially and adversely affect periodic reported results and credit availability, which may reduce earnings and, in turn, cash available for distribution to our shareholders.
The fair values of some of our investments are not readily determinable. We measure the fair value of these investments monthly, but the fair value at which our assets are recorded may differ from the values we ultimately realize. Ultimate realization of the fair value of an asset depends to a great extent on economic and other conditions that change during the time period over which the investment is held and are beyond the control of PCM, us or our board of trustees. Further, fair value is only an estimate based on good faith judgment of the price at which an investment can be sold since transacted prices of investments can only be determined by negotiation between a willing buyer and seller.
In certain cases, PCM’s estimation of the fair value of our investments includes inputs provided by third-party dealers and pricing services, and valuations of certain securities or other assets in which we invest are often difficult to obtain and are subject to judgments that may vary among market participants. Changes in the estimated fair values of those assets are directly charged or credited to earnings for the period. If we were to liquidate a particular asset, the realized value may be more than or less than the amount at which such asset was recorded. Accordingly, in either event, the fair value of our common shares could be materially and adversely affected by our determinations regarding the fair value of our investments, and such valuations may fluctuate over short periods of time.
PCM utilizes analytical models and data in connection with the valuation of our investments, and any incorrect, misleading or incomplete information used in connection therewith would subject us to potential risks.
Given the illiquidity and complexity of our investments and strategies, PCM must rely heavily on models and data, including analytical models (both proprietary models developed by PCM and those supplied by third parties) and information and data supplied by third parties. If any third party information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and not detected, then our model and data results could be materially impacted. Models and data are used to value investments or potential investments and also in connection with hedging our investments. In the event models and data prove to be incorrect, misleading or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon expose us to potential risks. For example, by relying on incorrect models and data, especially valuation models, PCM may be induced to buy certain investments at prices that are too high, to sell certain other investments at prices that are too low or to miss favorable opportunities altogether. Similarly, any hedging based on faulty models and data may prove to be unsuccessful.
Liability relating to environmental matters may impact the fair value of properties that we own or that underlie our investments.
Under various U.S. federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real property may become liable for the costs of removal of certain hazardous substances released on its property. These laws often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator was responsible for, or aware of, the release of such hazardous substances. The presence of hazardous substances
may also adversely affect an owner’s ability to sell real estate, borrow using the real estate as collateral or make debt payments to us. In addition, if we take title to a property, the presence of hazardous substances may adversely affect our ability to sell the property, and we may become liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for various fines, damages or remediation costs. Any of these liabilities or events may materially and adversely affect the fair value of the relevant asset and/or our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about borrowers and counterparties and any misrepresented information could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
In connection with our correspondent production activities, we may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of borrowers and counterparties, including financial statements and other financial information. We also may rely on representations of borrowers and counterparties as to the accuracy and completeness of that information and, with respect to audited financial statements, on reports of independent auditors. If any of this information is intentionally or negligently misrepresented and such misrepresentation is not detected prior to loan funding, the fair value of the loan may be significantly lower than expected. Our controls and processes may not have detected or may not detect all misrepresented information in our loan acquisitions or from our business clients. Any such misrepresented information could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We are subject to counterparty risk and may be unable to seek indemnity or require our counterparties to repurchase loans if they breach representations and warranties, which could cause us to suffer losses.
When we purchase mortgage assets, our counterparty typically makes customary representations and warranties to us about such assets. Our residential loan purchase agreements may entitle us to seek indemnity or demand repurchase or substitution of the loans in the event our counterparty breaches a representation or warranty given to us. However, there can be no assurance that our loan purchase agreements will contain appropriate representations and warranties, that we will be able to enforce our contractual right to demand repurchase or substitution, or that our counterparty will remain solvent or otherwise be willing and able to honor its obligations under our loan purchase agreements. Our inability to obtain indemnity or require repurchase of a significant number of loans could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We may be required to repurchase loans or indemnify investors if we breach representations and warranties, which could materially and adversely affect our earnings.
When we sell loans, we are required to make customary representations and warranties about such loans to the loan purchaser. As part of our correspondent production activities, PLS re-underwrites a percentage of the loans that we acquire, and we rely upon PLS to ensure quality underwriting by our correspondent sellers, accurate third-party appraisals, and strict compliance with the representations and warranties that we require from our correspondent sellers and that are required from us by our investors.
Our residential loan sale agreements may require us to repurchase or substitute loans or indemnify the purchaser against future losses in the event we breach a representation or warranty given to the loan purchaser or in the event of an early payment default on a loan. The remedies available to the Agencies, other purchasers and insurers of loans may be broader than those available to us against the originator or correspondent lender, and if a purchaser or insurer enforces its remedies against us, we may not be able to enforce the remedies we have against the sellers. The repurchased loans typically can only be financed at a steep discount to their repurchase price, if at all. Repurchased loans are also typically sold at a discount to the unpaid principal balance, which in some cases can be significant. Significant repurchase activity could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We are required to make servicing advances that can be subject to delays in recovery or may not be recoverable in certain circumstances, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
During any period in which a borrower is not making payments, we may be required under our servicing agreements in respect of our MSRs to advance our own funds to pass through scheduled principal and interest payments to security holders of the MBS into which the loans are sold, pay property taxes and insurance premiums, legal expenses and other protective advances. We also advance funds under these agreements to maintain, repair and market real estate properties on behalf of investors. As home values change, we may have to reconsider certain of the assumptions underlying our decisions to make advances and, in certain situations, our contractual obligations may require us to make advances for which we may not be reimbursed. In addition, if a loan serviced by us is in default or becomes delinquent, the repayment to us of the advance may be delayed until the loan is repaid or refinanced or a liquidation occurs.
Federal, state or local regulatory actions may increase the amount of servicing advances that we are required to make, lengthen the time it takes for us to be reimbursed for such advances and increase the costs incurred while the loan is delinquent. The federal
government enacted the CARES Act, which allows borrowers with federally-backed loans to request temporary payment forbearance in response to the increased borrower hardships resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.
A delay in our ability to collect advances may adversely affect our liquidity, and our inability to be reimbursed for advances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Risks Related to Our Management and Relationship with Our Manager and Its Affiliates
We are dependent upon PCM and PLS and their resources and may not find suitable replacements if any of our service agreements with PCM or PLS are terminated.
We are externally advised and managed by PCM, which, pursuant to our management agreement, makes all or substantially all of our investment, financing and risk management decisions, and has significant discretion as to the implementation of our operating policies and strategies. Under our loan servicing agreement with PLS, PLS provides primary servicing and special servicing for our portfolios of loans and MSRs, and under our mortgage banking services agreement with PLS, PLS provides fulfillment and disposition-related services in connection with our correspondent production business. The costs of these services increase our operating costs and may reduce our net income, but we rely on PCM and PLS to provide these services under these agreements because we have few employees and limited in-house capability to perform the activities independently.
No assurance can be given that the strategies of PCM, PLS or their affiliates under any of these agreements will be successful, that any of them will conduct complete and accurate due diligence or provide sound advice, or that any of them will act in our best interests with respect to the allocation of their resources to our business. The failure of any of them to do any of the above, conduct the business in accordance with applicable laws and regulations or hold all licenses or registrations necessary to conduct the business as currently operated would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue to execute our business plan.
In addition, the terms of these agreements extend until June 30, 2025, subject to automatic renewal for additional 18-month periods, but any of the agreements may be terminated earlier under certain circumstances or otherwise non-renewed. See “Termination of our management agreement is difficult and costly” below. If any agreement is terminated or not renewed and not replaced by a new agreement, it would materially and adversely affect our ability to continue to execute our business plan.
If our management agreement or loan servicing agreement is terminated or not renewed, we will have to obtain the services from another service provider. We may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on favorable terms, or at all. With respect to our mortgage banking services agreement, the services provided by PLS are inherently unique and not widely available, if at all. This is particularly true because we are not a Ginnie Mae licensed issuer, yet we are able to acquire government loans from our correspondent sellers that we know will ultimately be purchased from us by PLS. While we generally have exclusive rights to these services from PLS during the term of our mortgage banking services agreement, in the event of a termination we may not be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on favorable terms, or at all, and we ultimately would be required to compete against PLS as it relates to our correspondent business activities.
The management fee structure could cause disincentive and/or create greater investment risk.
Pursuant to our management agreement, PCM is entitled to receive a base management fee that is based on our shareholders’ equity (as defined in our management agreement) at the end of each quarter. As a result, significant base management fees would be payable to PCM for a given quarter even if we experience a net loss during that quarter. PCM’s right to non-performance-based compensation may not provide sufficient incentive to PCM to devote its time and effort to source and maximize risk-adjusted returns on our investment portfolio, which could, in turn, materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares and/or our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Conversely, PCM is also entitled to receive incentive compensation under our management agreement based on our performance in each quarter. In evaluating investments and other management strategies, the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on our net income may lead PCM to place undue emphasis on higher yielding investments and the maximization of short-term income at the expense of other criteria, such as preservation of capital, maintenance of sufficient liquidity and/or management of market risk, in order to achieve higher incentive compensation. Investments with higher yield potential are generally riskier and more speculative.
The servicing fee structure could create a conflict of interest.
For its services under our loan servicing agreement, PLS is entitled to servicing fees that we believe are competitive with those charged by primary servicers and specialty servicers and include fixed per-loan monthly amounts based on the delinquency, bankruptcy and/or foreclosure status of the serviced loan or the REO, as well as activity fees that generally are fixed dollar amounts. PLS is also entitled to customary ancillary income and certain market-based fees and charges, including boarding and deboarding fees, liquidation and disposition fees, and assumption, modification and origination fees. Because certain of these fees are earned upon reaching a specific milestone, this fee structure may provide PLS with an incentive to foreclose more aggressively or liquidate assets for less than their fair value.
On our behalf, PLS also refinances performing loans and originates new loans to facilitate the disposition of real estate that we acquire through foreclosure. In order to provide PLS with an incentive to produce such loans, PLS is entitled to receive origination fees and other compensation based on market-based pricing and terms that are consistent with the pricing and terms offered by PLS to unaffiliated third parties on a retail basis. This may provide PLS with an incentive to refinance a greater proportion of our loans than it otherwise would and/or to refinance loans on our behalf instead of arranging the refinancings with a third party lender, either of which might give rise to a potential or perceived conflict of interest.
Termination of our management agreement is difficult and costly.
It is difficult and costly to terminate, without cause, our management agreement. Our management agreement provides that it may be terminated by us without cause under limited circumstances and the payment to PCM of a significant termination fee. The cost to us of terminating our management agreement may adversely affect our desire or ability to terminate our management agreement with PCM without cause. PCM may also terminate our management agreement upon at least 60 days’ prior written notice if we default in the performance of any material term of our management agreement and the default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice to us, or where we terminate our loan servicing agreement, our mortgage banking services agreement or certain other of our related party agreements with PCM or PLS without cause (at any time other than at the end of the current term or any automatic renewal term), whereupon in any case we would be required to pay to PCM a significant termination fee. As a result, our desire or ability to terminate any of our related party agreements may be adversely affected to the extent such termination would trigger the right of PCM to terminate the management agreement and our obligation to pay PCM a significant termination fee.
Existing or future entities or accounts managed by PCM may compete with us for, or may participate in, investments, any of which could result in conflicts of interest.
Although our agreements with PCM and PLS provide us with certain exclusivity and other rights and we and PCM have adopted an allocation policy to specifically address some of the conflicts relating to our investment opportunities, there is no assurance that these measures will be adequate to address all of the conflicts that may arise or will address such conflicts in a manner that is favorable to us. Certain of the funds that PCM may advise in the future may have investment objectives that overlap with ours, including funds which have different fee structures, and potential conflicts may arise with respect to decisions regarding how to allocate investment opportunities among those funds and us. We are also limited in our ability to acquire assets that are not qualifying real estate assets and/or real estate related assets, whereas other entities or accounts that PCM may manage in the future may not be so limited. In addition, PCM and the other entities or accounts managed by PCM in the future may participate in some of our investments, which may not be the result of arm’s length negotiations and may involve or later result in potential conflicts between our interests in the investments and those of PCM or such other entities.
We may encounter conflicts of interest in our Manager’s efforts to appropriately allocate its time and services between its own activities and the management of us, and the loss of the services of our Manager’s management team could adversely affect us.
Pursuant to our management agreement, PCM is obligated to provide us with the services of its senior management team, and the members of that team are required to devote such time to us as is necessary and appropriate, commensurate with our level of activity. The members of PCM’s senior management team may have conflicts in allocating their time and services between the operations of PFSI and our activities, and other entities or accounts that they may manage in the future.
Our failure to appropriately address various issues that may give rise to reputational risk could cause harm to our business and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our business is subject to significant reputational risks. If we fail, or appear to fail, to address various issues that may give rise to reputational risk, we could significantly harm our business. Such issues include, but are not limited to, actual or perceived conflicts of interest, violations of legal or regulatory requirements, and any of the other risks discussed in this Item 1A. Similarly, market rumors and actual or perceived association with counterparties whose own reputations are under question could harm our business.
As we expand the scope of our businesses, we confront potential conflicts of interest relating to our investment activities that are managed by PCM. The SEC and certain other regulators continue to scrutinize potential conflicts of interest, and as we expand the scope of our business, we continue to monitor and address any conflicts between our interests and those of PFSI. We have implemented procedures and controls to be followed when real or potential conflicts of interest arise, but it is possible that potential or perceived conflicts could give rise to the dissatisfaction of, or litigation by, our investors or regulatory enforcement actions. Appropriately dealing with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our reputation could be damaged if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with one or more potential or actual conflicts of interest. Regulatory scrutiny, litigation or reputational risk incurred in connection with conflicts of interest would adversely affect our business in a number of ways and may adversely affect our results of operations. Reputational risk incurred in connection with conflicts of interest could negatively affect our financial condition and business, strain our working relationships with regulators and government agencies, expose us to litigation and regulatory action, impact our ability to attract and retain customers, trading counterparties, investors and employees and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Reputational damage can result from our actual or alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending and debt collection practices, corporate governance, and actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those activities. Negative public opinion can also result from social media and media coverage, whether accurate or not. In addition, various private third party organizations have developed ratings processes for evaluating companies on their approach to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters. These third party ESG ratings may be used by some investors to assist with their investment and voting decisions. Any unfavorable ESG ratings may lead to reputational damage and negative sentiment among our investors and other stakeholders. These factors could impair our working relationships with government agencies and investors, expose us to litigation and regulatory action, negatively affect our ability to attract and retain customers, trading counterparties and employees, significantly harm our stock price and ability to raise capital, and adversely affect our results of operations.
PCM and PLS both have limited liability and indemnity rights.
Our agreements with PCM and PLS provide that PCM and PLS will not assume any responsibility other than to provide the services specified in the applicable agreements. Our management agreement further provides that PCM will not be responsible for any action of our board of trustees in following or declining to follow its advice or recommendations. In addition, each of PCM and PLS and their respective affiliates, including each such entity’s managers, officers, trustees, directors, employees and members, will be held harmless from, and indemnified by us against, certain liabilities on customary terms. As a result, to the extent we are damaged through certain actions or inactions of PCM or PLS, our recourse is limited and we may not be able to recover our losses.
Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure
Certain provisions of Maryland law, our staggered board of trustees and certain provisions in our declaration of trust could each inhibit a change in our control.
Certain provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) applicable to a Maryland real estate investment trust may have the effect of inhibiting a third party from making a proposal to acquire us or of impeding a change in our control under circumstances that otherwise could provide the holders of our common shares with the opportunity to realize a premium over the then prevailing market price of such common shares.
In addition, our board of trustees is divided into three classes of trustees. Trustees of each class will be elected for three-year terms upon the expiration of their current terms, and each year one class of trustees will be elected by our shareholders. The staggered terms of our trustees may reduce the possibility of a tender offer or an attempt at a change in control, even though a tender offer or change in control might be in the best interests of our shareholders.
Further, our declaration of trust authorizes us to issue additional authorized but unissued common shares and preferred shares. Our board of trustees may, without shareholder approval, increase the aggregate number of our authorized common shares or the number of shares of any class or series that we have authority to issue and classify or reclassify any unissued common shares or preferred shares and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. As a result, our board may establish a class or series of common shares or preferred shares or take other actions that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.
Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited, which could limit shareholder recourse in the event of actions not in the best interest of our shareholders.
Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our present and former trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our present and former trustees and officers will not have any liability to us or our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from either (a) actual
receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services or (b) active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment and is material to the cause of action.
Our declaration of trust authorizes us to indemnify our present and former trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. Our bylaws require us to indemnify each present and former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, in the defense of any proceeding to which he or she is made, or threatened to be made, a party by reason of his or her service to us. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the current provisions in our declaration of trust and bylaws or that might exist with other companies, which could limit shareholder recourse in the event of actions not in the best interest of our shareholders.
Our declaration of trust contains provisions that make removal of our trustees difficult, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to effect changes to our management.
Our declaration of trust provides that, subject to the rights of holders of any series of preferred shares, a trustee may be removed only for “cause” (as defined in our declaration of trust), and then only by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast generally in the election of trustees. Vacancies generally may be filled only by a majority of the remaining trustees in office, even if less than a quorum, for the full term of the class of trustees in which the vacancy occurred. These requirements make it more difficult to change our management by removing and replacing trustees and may prevent a change in our control that is in the best interests of our shareholders.
Our bylaws include an exclusive forum provision that could limit our shareholders’ ability to obtain a judicial forum viewed by the shareholders as more favorable for disputes with us or our trustees or officers.
Our bylaws provide that the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland, or, if that Court does not have jurisdiction, the United States District Court for the District of Maryland, Baltimore Division, is the exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a claim of breach of fiduciary duty; any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provision of the Maryland REIT Law; or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive forum provision may limit a shareholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our trustees or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our trustees and officers. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition.
Failure to maintain exemptions or exclusions from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 could materially and adversely affect us.
Because we are organized as a holding company that conducts business primarily through PennyMac Operating Partnership, L.P. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, our status under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the Investment Company Act, is dependent upon the status of our Operating Partnership which, as a holding company, in turn, will have its status determined by the status of its subsidiaries. If our Operating Partnership or one or more of its subsidiaries fail to maintain their exceptions or exclusions from the Investment Company Act and we do not have available to us another basis on which we may avoid registration, we may have to register under the Investment Company Act. This could subject us to substantial regulation with respect to our capital structure (including our ability to use leverage), management, operations, transactions with affiliated persons (as defined in the Investment Company Act), portfolio composition, including restrictions with respect to diversification and industry concentration, and other matters. It could also cause the breach of covenants we or our subsidiaries have made under certain of our financing arrangements, which could result in an event of default, acceleration of debt and/or termination.
There can be no assurance that the laws and regulations governing the Investment Company Act status of REITs, including guidance and interpretations from the Division of Investment Management of the SEC regarding the exceptions and exclusions therefrom, will not change in a manner that adversely affects our operations. If the SEC takes action that could result in our or our subsidiaries’ failure to maintain an exception or exclusion from the Investment Company Act, we could, among other things, be required to (a) restructure our operations to avoid being required to register as an investment company, (b) effect sales of our assets in a manner that, or at a time when, we would not otherwise choose to do so or (c) register as an investment company (which, among other things, would require us to comply with the leverage constraints applicable to investment companies), any of which could negatively affect the value of our common shares, the sustainability of our business model, our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Further, a loss of our Investment Company Act exceptions or exclusions would allow PCM to terminate our management agreement with us, and our loan servicing agreement with PLS is subject to early termination in the event our management agreement is terminated for any reason. If either of these agreements is terminated, we will have to obtain the services on our own, and we may
not be able to replace these services in a timely manner or on favorable terms, or at all. This would have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue to execute our business strategy and would likely negatively affect our financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
The failure of PennyMac Corp. to avail itself of an appropriate exemption from registration as an investment company under the Investment Company Act could have a material and adverse effect on our business.
We intend to operate so that we and each of our subsidiaries are not required to register as investment companies under the Investment Company Act. We believe that our subsidiary, PennyMac Corp. (“PMC”), qualifies for one or more exemptions under the Investment Company Act because of the historical and current composition of its assets and income; however, there can be no assurances that the composition of PMC’s assets and income will remain the same over time such that one or more exemptions will continue to be applicable.
If PMC is required to register as an investment company, we would be required to comply with a variety of substantive requirements under the Investment Company Act that impose, among other things: limitations on capital structure; restrictions on specified investments; prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting and proxy disclosure; and, other rules and regulations that would significantly increase our operating expenses. Further, if PMC was or is required to register as an investment company, PMC would be in breach of various representations and warranties contained in its credit and other agreements resulting in a default as to certain of our contracts and obligations. This could also subject us to civil or criminal actions or regulatory proceedings, or result in a court appointed receiver to take control of us and liquidate our business, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Rapid changes in the fair values of our investments may make it more difficult for us to maintain our REIT qualification or exclusion from the Investment Company Act.
If the fair value or income potential of our residential loans and other real estate-related assets declines as a result of increased interest rates, prepayment rates or other factors, we may need to increase certain real estate investments and income and/or liquidate our non-qualifying assets in order to maintain our REIT qualification or exclusion from the Investment Company Act. If the decline in real estate asset values and/or income occurs quickly, this may be especially difficult to accomplish, particularly given the illiquid nature of our investments. We may have to make investment decisions, including the liquidation of investments at a disadvantageous time or on unfavorable terms, that we otherwise would not make absent our REIT and Investment Company Act considerations, and such liquidations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Risks Related to Taxation
Our failure to qualify as a REIT would result in higher taxes and reduced cash available for distribution to our shareholders.
We are organized and operate in a manner so as to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our qualification as a REIT depends on our satisfaction of certain asset, income, organizational, distribution, shareholder ownership and other requirements on a continuing basis. If we were to lose our REIT status in any taxable year, corporate-level income taxes, including applicable state and local taxes, would apply to all of our taxable income at federal and state tax rates, and distributions to our shareholders would not be deductible by us in computing our taxable income. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our shareholders, which in turn would have an adverse impact on the value of our common shares. Unless we were entitled to relief under certain Internal Revenue Code provisions, we also would be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we ceased to qualify as a REIT.
Even if we qualify as a REIT, we face tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow, and a significant portion of our income may be earned through taxable REIT subsidiaries, or TRSs that are subject to U.S. federal income taxation
Even if we qualify for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain U.S. federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, taxes on income from some activities conducted as a result of a foreclosure, and state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders.
We also engage in business activities that are required to be conducted in a TRS. In order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, or to avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or
inventory, we hold a significant portion of our assets through, and derive a significant portion of our taxable income and gains in, a TRS, subject to the limitation that securities in TRSs may not represent more than 20% of our assets in order for us to remain qualified as a REIT. All taxable income and gains derived from the assets held from time to time in our TRS are subject to regular corporate income taxation.
The percentage of our assets represented by a TRS and the amount of our income that we can receive in the form of TRS dividends are subject to statutory limitations that could jeopardize our REIT status.
Currently, no more than 20% of the value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRSs at the end of each quarter. We may potentially have to modify our activities or the capital structure of those TRSs in order to comply with this limitation and maintain our qualification as a REIT. While we intend to manage our affairs so as to satisfy this requirement, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in all market circumstances and even if we are able to do so, compliance with this rule may reduce our flexibility in operating our business. Although a TRS is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax on its taxable income, we may from time to time need to make distributions of such after-tax income in order to keep the value of our TRS below 20% of our total assets. However, for purposes of one of the tests we must satisfy to qualify as a REIT, at least 75% of our gross income must in each taxable year generally be from real estate assets. While we monitor our compliance with both this income test and the limitation on the percentage of our assets represented by TRS securities, the two may at times be in conflict with one another. That is, it is possible that we may wish to distribute a dividend from a TRS in order to reduce the value of our TRS below 20% of the required percentage of our assets, but be unable to do so without violating the requirement that 75% of our gross income in the taxable year be derived from real estate assets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with either or both of these tests in all market conditions. Our inability to comply with both of these tests could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, qualification as a REIT and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Ordinary dividends payable by REITs do not generally qualify for the reduced tax rates applicable to certain corporate dividends.
The Internal Revenue Code provides for a 20% maximum federal income tax rate for dividends paid by regular United States corporations to eligible domestic shareholders that are individuals, trusts or estates. Dividends paid by REITs are generally not eligible for these reduced rates. H.R. 1, commonly known as the 2017 Tax Cuts and Job Act (the “Tax Act”), which was enacted on December 22, 2017, generally may allow domestic shareholders to deduct from their taxable income one-fifth of the REIT ordinary dividends payable to them for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 and before January 1, 2026. To qualify for this deduction, the shareholder receiving such dividend must hold the dividend-paying REIT shares for at least 46 days (taking into account certain special holding period rules) of the 91-day period beginning 45 days before the shares become ex-dividend, and cannot be under an obligation to make related payments with respect to a position in substantially similar or related property. However, even if a domestic shareholder qualifies for this deduction, the effective rate for such REIT dividends still remains higher than rates for regular corporate dividends paid to high-taxed individuals. The more favorable rates applicable to regular corporate dividends could cause investors who are individuals, trusts and estates to perceive investments in REITs to be relatively less attractive as a federal income tax matter than investments in the stocks of non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, which could materially and adversely affect the value of the stock of REITs, including our common shares.
Certain of our historic investments in CRT Agreements may not be eligible REIT assets and we have therefore held such investments in our TRS, resulting in a significant portion of our income from these investments being subject to U.S. federal and state income taxation in order not to jeopardize our REIT status.
Our new investments in CRT securities are structured with the intention of satisfying our REIT qualification requirements. Accordingly, in general we expect to hold investments in such CRT securities in the REIT based on the advice of our tax advisors. However, with respect to certain of our historic investments in CRT Agreements, the REIT eligibility of the assets subject to the CRT Agreements and the income relating thereto remains uncertain. Accordingly, in general we currently hold such investments in our TRS, although we have on occasion based on the advice of tax advisors held such positions in the REIT and may do so in the future as well, depending on the precise structure of such investments and our level of certainty that such investments are in a form consistent with their characterization as qualifying assets for a REIT. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to take a position adverse to our interpretation, the consequences of such action could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We have not established a minimum distribution payment level and no assurance can be given that we will be able to make distributions to our shareholders in the future at current levels or at all.
We are generally required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year for us to qualify as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, which requirement we currently intend to satisfy. To the extent we satisfy the 90%
distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We have not established a minimum distribution payment level, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders may be materially and adversely affected by the risk factors discussed in this Report and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. Although we have made, and anticipate continuing to make, quarterly distributions to our shareholders, our board of trustees has the sole discretion to determine the timing, form and amount of any future distributions to our shareholders, and such determination will depend upon, among other factors, our historical and projected results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, maintenance of our REIT qualification and other tax considerations, capital expenditure and other expense obligations, debt covenants, contractual prohibitions or other limitations and applicable law and such other matters as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. Among the factors that could impair our ability to continue to make distributions to our shareholders are:
•
our inability to invest the net proceeds from our equity offerings;
•
our inability to make attractive risk-adjusted returns on our current and future investments;
•
non-cash earnings or unanticipated expenses that reduce our cash flow;
•
defaults in our investment portfolio or decreases in its value;
•
reduced cash flows caused by delays in repayment or liquidation of our investments; and
•
the fact that anticipated operating expense levels may not prove accurate, as actual results may vary from estimates.
As a result, no assurance can be given that we will be able to continue to make distributions to our shareholders in the future or that the level of any future distributions will achieve a market yield or increase or even be maintained over time, or that future dividends might not be a combination of stock and cash, as permitted under Internal Revenue Service guidelines, any of which could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares.
The REIT distribution requirements could materially and adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategies.
We intend to continue to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code and to avoid paying corporate income tax on undistributed income. However, differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash could require us to sell assets, borrow funds on a short-term or long-term basis, or issue equity to meet the distribution requirements of the Internal Revenue Code. We may find it difficult or impossible to meet distribution requirements in certain circumstances. Due to the nature of the assets in which we invest and may invest and to our accounting elections for such assets, we may be required to recognize taxable income from those assets in advance of our receipt of cash flow on or proceeds from disposition of such assets.
In addition, pursuant to the Tax Act, we generally will be required to recognize certain amounts in income no later than the time such amounts are reflected on our financial statements filed with the SEC. The application of this rule may require the accrual of income with respect to loans, MBS, and other types of debt securities or interests in debt securities held by us, such as original issue discount or market discount, earlier than would be the case under other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, although the precise application of this rule to our business is unclear at this time in various respects.
As a result, to the extent such income is not realized within a TRS, the requirement to distribute a substantial portion of our net taxable income could cause us to: (i) sell assets in adverse market conditions, (ii) borrow on unfavorable terms, (iii) distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions, capital expenditures or repayment of debt or (iv) make a taxable distribution of our shares as part of a distribution in which shareholders may elect to receive shares or (subject to a limit measured as a percentage of the total distribution) cash, in order to comply with REIT requirements.
We may be required to report taxable income early in our holding period for certain investments in excess of the economic income we ultimately realize from them.
We acquire and/or expect to acquire in the secondary market debt instruments that we may significantly modify for less than their face amount, MBS issued with original issue discount, MBS acquired at a market discount, or debt instruments or MBS that are delinquent as to mandatory principal and interest payments. In each case, we may be required to report income regardless of whether corresponding cash payments are received or are ultimately collectible. If we eventually collect less than we had previously reported as income, there may be a bad debt deduction available to us at that time or we may record a capital loss in a disposition of such asset, but our ability to benefit from that bad debt deduction would depend on our having taxable income or capital gains, respectively, in that later taxable year or a subsequent taxable year. This possible “income early, losses later” phenomenon could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders if it were persistent and in significant amounts.
The share ownership limits applicable to us that are imposed by the Internal Revenue Code for REITs and our declaration of trust may restrict our business combination opportunities.
In order for us to maintain our qualification as a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Internal Revenue Code to include certain entities) at any time during the last half of each taxable year following our first year. Our declaration of trust, with certain exceptions, authorizes our board of trustees to take the actions that are necessary and desirable to preserve our qualification as a REIT. Under our declaration of trust, no person may own more than 9.8% by vote or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding common shares or more than 9.8% by vote or value, whichever is more restrictive, of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest. Our board may grant an exemption to the share ownership limits in its sole discretion, subject to certain conditions and the receipt of certain representations and undertakings. These share ownership limits are based upon direct or indirect ownership by “individuals,” which term includes certain entities.
Ownership limitations are common in the organizational documents of REITs and are intended, among other purposes, to provide added assurance of compliance with the tax law requirements and to minimize administrative burdens. However, our share ownership limits might also delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium price for our common shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders.
Complying with the REIT requirements can be difficult and may cause us to forego otherwise attractive opportunities or liquidate otherwise attractive investments.
To qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we must continually satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets, the amounts we distribute to our shareholders and the ownership of our shares. We may be required to make distributions to our shareholders at disadvantageous times or when we do not have funds readily available for distribution. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments or require us to liquidate from our portfolio otherwise attractive investments. If we are compelled to liquidate our investments, we may be unable to comply with these requirements, ultimately jeopardizing our qualification as a REIT, or we may be subject to a 100% tax on any resultant gain if we sell assets that are treated as dealer property or inventory. These actions could have the effect of reducing our income and amounts available for distribution to our shareholders.
Complying with the REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively.
The REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to hedge our assets, liabilities and operations. Under current law, any income from a hedging transaction we enter into either (i) to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made to acquire or carry real estate assets, (ii) to manage risk of currency fluctuations with respect to items of income that qualify for purposes of the REIT 75% or 95% gross income tests or assets that generate such income, or (iii) to hedge another instrument that hedges risks described in clause (i) or (ii) for a period following the extinguishment of the liability or the disposition of the asset that was previously hedged by the instrument, provided, that, in each case, such instrument is properly identified under applicable Treasury regulations, will not be treated as qualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may have to limit our use of hedging techniques that might otherwise be advantageous, which could result in greater risks associated with interest rate or other changes than we would otherwise be subject to.
The tax on prohibited transactions limits our ability to engage in transactions, including certain methods of securitizing loans that would be treated as sales for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
A REIT’s net income from prohibited transactions is subject to a 100% tax. In general, prohibited transactions are sales or other dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, but including loans, held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. We would be subject to this tax if we were to sell loans that we held primarily for sale to customers in a securitization transaction effected through the REIT. Therefore, in order to avoid the prohibited transactions tax, we engage in such sales of loans through the TRS. We may hold a substantial amount of assets in one or more TRSs that are subject to corporate income tax on its earnings, which may reduce the cash flow generated by us and our subsidiaries in the aggregate, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
The taxable mortgage pool (“TMP”) rules may increase the taxes that we or our shareholders may incur, and may limit the manner in which we effect future securitizations.
Certain of our securitizations that involve the issuance of indebtedness rather than sales may likely be considered to result in the creation of TMPs for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A TMP is always classified as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, as long as a REIT owns 100% of a TMP, such classification generally does not result in the imposition of corporate income tax, because the TMP is a “qualified REIT subsidiary.”
In the case of such wholly-REIT owned TMPs, certain categories of our shareholders, such as foreign shareholders otherwise eligible for treaty benefits, shareholders with net operating losses, and tax exempt shareholders that are subject to unrelated business income tax, could be subject to increased taxes on a portion of their dividend income received from us that is attributable to the TMP, or “excess inclusion income.” In addition, to the extent that our shares are owned in record name by tax exempt “disqualified organizations,” such as certain government-related entities that are not subject to tax on unrelated business income, we may incur a corporate level tax on our allocable portion of excess inclusion income from such a wholly-REIT owned TMP. In that case and to the extent feasible, we may reduce the amount of our distributions to any disqualified organization whose share ownership gave rise to the tax, or we may bear such tax as a general corporate expense. To the extent that our shares owned by disqualified organizations are held in record name by a broker/dealer or other nominee, the broker/dealer or other nominee would be liable for the corporate level tax on the portion of our excess inclusion income allocable to the shares held by the broker/dealer or other nominee on behalf of disqualified organizations. While we intend to attempt to minimize the portion of our distributions that is subject to these rules, the law is unclear concerning computation of excess inclusion income, and its amount could be significant.
In the case of any TMP that would be taxable as a domestic corporation if it were not wholly-REIT owned, we would be precluded from selling equity interests in these securitizations to outside investors, or selling any debt securities issued in connection with these securitizations that might be considered to be equity interests for tax purposes. This marketing limitation may prevent us from selling more junior or non-investment grade debt securities in such securitizations and maximizing our proceeds realized in those offerings.
New legislation or administrative or judicial action, in each instance potentially with retroactive effect, could make it more difficult or impossible for us to qualify as a REIT.
The rules dealing with federal income taxation, including the present U.S. federal income tax treatment of REITs, may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the U.S. federal income tax treatment of an investment in our common shares. Changes to the tax laws, including the U.S. federal tax rules that affect REITs, are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to Treasury Regulations and interpretations. Revisions in U.S. federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could materially and adversely affect us and our shareholders.
We also may enter into certain transactions where the REIT eligibility of the assets subject to such transactions is uncertain. In circumstances where the application of these rules and regulations affecting our investments is not clear, we may have to interpret them and their application to us. If the IRS were to take a position adverse to our interpretation, the consequences of such action could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
An IRS administrative pronouncement with respect to investments by REITs in distressed debt secured by both real and personal property, if interpreted adversely to us, could cause us to pay penalty taxes or potentially to lose our REIT status.
Most of the distressed loans that we historically acquired were acquired by us at a discount from their outstanding principal amount, because our pricing was generally based on the value of the underlying real estate that secures those loans.
Treasury Regulation Section 1.856-5(c) (the “interest apportionment regulation”) provides rules for determining what portion of the interest income from loans that are secured by both real and personal property is treated as “interest on obligations secured by mortgages on real property or on interests in real property.” Under the interest apportionment regulation, if a mortgage covers both real property and other property, a REIT is required to apportion its annual interest income to the real property security based on a fraction, the numerator of which is the value of the real property securing the loan, determined when the REIT commits to acquire the loan, and the denominator of which is the highest “principal amount” of the loan during the year. The IRS issued Revenue Procedure 2011-16, which contains an example regarding the application of the interest apportionment regulation. The example interprets the “principal amount” of the loan to be the face amount of the loan, despite the Internal Revenue Code requiring taxpayers to treat any market discount, that is the difference between the purchase price of the loan and its face amount, for all purposes (other than certain withholding and information reporting purposes) as interest rather than principal.
The interest apportionment regulation applies only if the debt in question is secured both by real property and personal property. We believe that all of the loans that we acquired at a discount under the circumstances contemplated by Revenue Procedure 2011-16 are secured only by real property and no other property value is taken into account in our underwriting and pricing. Accordingly, we believe that the interest apportionment regulation does not apply to our portfolio.
Nevertheless, if the IRS were to assert successfully that our loans were secured by property other than real estate, that the interest apportionment regulation applied for purposes of our REIT testing, and that the position taken in Revenue Procedure 2011-16
should be applied to our portfolio, then depending upon the value of the real property securing our loans and their face amount, and the sources of our gross income generally, we might not be able to meet the 75% REIT gross income test, and possibly the asset tests applicable to REITs. If we did not meet this test, we could potentially either lose our REIT status or be required to pay a tax penalty to the IRS.
With respect to the 75% REIT asset test, Revenue Procedure 2011-16 provides a safe harbor under which the IRS will not challenge a REIT’s treatment of a loan as being a real estate asset in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the fair market value of the real property securing the loan determined as of the date the REIT committed to acquire the loan or (2) the fair market value of the loan on the date of the relevant quarterly REIT asset testing date. This safe harbor, if it applied to us, would help us comply with the REIT asset tests following the acquisition of distressed debt if the value of the real property securing the loan were to subsequently decline. However, if the value of the real property securing the loan were to increase, the safe harbor rule of Revenue Procedure 2011-16, read literally, could have the peculiar effect of causing the corresponding increase in the value of the loan to not be treated as a real estate asset. We do not believe, however, that this was the intended result in situations in which the value of a loan has increased because the value of the real property securing the loan has increased, or that this safe harbor rule applies to debt that is secured solely by real property. However, for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2015, Internal Revenue Code Section 856(c)(9) was added and clarifies Revenue Procedure 2011-16. Subparagraph (B) of Section 856(c)(9) allows a REIT to treat personal property that is secured by a mortgage on both real property and personal property as a real estate asset, and the interest income as derived from a mortgage secured by real property, if the fair value of the personal property does not exceed fifteen percent 15% of the total fair value of all property secured by the mortgage. Nevertheless, if the IRS took the position that the safe harbor rule applied in these scenarios, then we might not be able to meet the various quarterly REIT asset tests if the value of the real estate securing our loans increased, and thus the value of our loans increased by a corresponding amount. If we did not meet one or more of these tests, then we could potentially either lose our REIT status or be required to pay a tax penalty to the IRS.
General Risks
The risk management efforts of our Manager may not be effective.
We could incur substantial losses and our business operations could be disrupted if our Manager is unable to effectively identify, manage, monitor, and mitigate financial risks, such as credit risk, interest rate risk, prepayment risk, liquidity risk, and other market-related risks, as well as operational and legal risks related to our business, assets, and liabilities. We also are subject to various other laws, regulations and rules that are not industry specific, including health and safety laws, environmental laws and other federal, state and local laws, regulations and rules in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our Manager’s risk management policies, procedures, and techniques may not be sufficient to identify all of the risks to which we are exposed, mitigate the risks we have identified, or identify additional risks to which we may become subject in the future. Expansion of our business activities may also result in our being exposed to risks to which we have not previously been exposed or may increase our exposure to certain types of risks, and our Manager may not effectively identify, manage, monitor, and mitigate these risks as our business activity changes or increases.
We could be harmed by misconduct or fraud that is difficult to detect.
We are exposed to risks relating to misconduct by our employees, employees of PennyMac and its subsidiaries, contractors we use, or other third parties with whom we have relationships. For example, such employees could execute unauthorized transactions, use our assets improperly or without authorization, perform improper activities, use confidential information for improper purposes, or misrecord or otherwise try to hide improper activities from us. This type of misconduct could also relate to our assets managed by PCM. This type of misconduct can be difficult to detect and if not prevented or detected could result in claims or enforcement actions against us or losses. Accordingly, misconduct by the employees of PennyMac and its subsidiaries, contractors, or others could subject us to losses or regulatory sanctions and seriously harm our reputation. Our controls may not be effective in detecting this type of activity.
If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately determine our financial results or prevent fraud.
Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. We may in the future discover areas of our internal controls that need improvement. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting and have our independent auditors annually attest to our evaluation, as well as issue their own opinion on our internal control over financial reporting. While we have undertaken substantial work to comply with Section 404, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in maintaining adequate control over our financial reporting and financial processes. In addition, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has created unique challenges resulting from employees working remotely.
Furthermore, as we continue to grow our business, our internal controls will become more complex, and we will require significantly more resources to ensure our internal controls remain effective.
If we or our independent auditors discover a material weakness, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could result in an event of default under one or more of our lending arrangements and/or reduce the market value of our common shares. Additionally, the existence of any material weakness or significant deficiency could require management to devote significant time and incur significant expense to remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency, and management may not be able to remediate any such material weakness or significant deficiency in a timely manner, or at all. Accordingly, our failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in misstatements of our financial results or restatements of our financial statements or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Cybersecurity risks, cyber incidents and technology failures may adversely affect our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of our confidential information, and/or damage to our business relationships, all of which could negatively impact our financial results.
A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of our information resources. These incidents may be an intentional attack or an unintentional event and could involve gaining unauthorized access to our information systems for purposes of theft of certain personally identifiable information of consumers, misappropriating assets, stealing confidential information, corrupting data or causing operational disruption. The result of these incidents may include disrupted operations, misstated or unreliable financial data, liability for stolen assets or information, increased cybersecurity protection and insurance costs, litigation and damage to our investor relationships.
As our reliance on rapidly changing technologies has increased, so have the risks posed to our information systems, both internal and those provided to us by third-party service providers such as cloud-based computing service providers. System disruptions and failures caused by fire, power loss, telecommunications outages, unauthorized intrusion, computer viruses and disabling devices, natural disasters and other similar events may interrupt or delay our ability to provide services to our customers.
Despite efforts by PCM to ensure the integrity of its systems, its investment in significant physical and technological security measures, employee training, contractual precautions and business continuity plans, and its implementation of policies and procedures designed to help mitigate cybersecurity risks and cyber intrusions, there can be no assurance that any such cyber intrusions will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. We also may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all security breaches, especially because the methods of attack change frequently or are not recognized until launched, and because security attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, including third parties such as persons involved with organized crime or associated with external service providers. We are also held accountable for the actions and inactions of our third-party vendors regarding cybersecurity and other consumer-related matters.
Any of the foregoing events could result in violations of applicable privacy and other laws, financial loss to us or to our customers, loss of confidence in our security measures, customer dissatisfaction, additional regulatory scrutiny, significant litigation exposure and harm to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
The industry in which we operate is highly competitive, and is likely to become more competitive, and our inability to compete successfully or decreased margins resulting from increased competition could adversely affect our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
We operate in a highly competitive industry that could become even more competitive as a result of economic, legislative, regulatory and technological changes. We compete in our investment activities with other mortgage REITs, specialty finance companies, private funds, banks, mortgage bankers, insurance companies, mutual funds, institutional investors, investment banking firms, depository institutions, governmental bodies and other entities, many of which focus on acquiring mortgage assets. In addition, large commercial banks and savings institutions and other independent mortgage lenders and servicers are becoming increasingly competitive in the acquisition of newly originated loans. Many of these institutions have competitive advantages over us, including size, financial strength, access to capital, cost of funds, federal pre-emption and higher risk tolerance. Additionally, our existing and potential competitors may decide to modify their business models to compete more directly with our correspondent production business. Competition may result in fewer investments, higher prices, acceptance of greater risk, lower yields and a narrower spread of yields over our financing costs. Moreover, if more non-bank entities enter these markets and as more commercial banks aggressively compete, our correspondent production activities may generate lower volumes and/or margins.
Future issuances of debt securities, which would rank senior to our common shares, and future issuances of equity securities, which would dilute the holdings of our existing shareholders and may be senior to our common shares, may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares.
In order to grow our business, we may rely on additional common and preferred equity issuances, which may rank senior and/or be dilutive to our current shareholders, or on less efficient forms of debt financing that rank senior to our shareholders and require a larger portion of our cash flow from operations, thereby reducing funds available for our operations, future business opportunities, cash distributions to our shareholders and other purposes.
During March 2017, we issued 4.6 million of 8.125% Series A Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares and, in July 2017, we also issued 7.8 million of 8.00% Series B Fixed-to-Floating Rate Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares. Our outstanding preferred shares have preferences on distribution payments, including liquidating distributions, which could limit our ability to make distributions, including liquidating distributions, to holders of our common shares.
During November 2019, our wholly-owned subsidiary, PMC, issued $210 million of exchangeable senior notes, the 2024 Notes, that are exchangeable under certain circumstances for our common shares. Upon liquidation, holders of our debt securities and other loans would receive a distribution of our available assets before holders of our common shares and holders of the 2024 Notes could receive a distribution of PMC’s available assets before holders of our common shares. We also issued a total of 33.5 million common shares pursuant to underwritten equity offerings during fiscal year 2019.
Subject to applicable law, our board of trustees has the authority, without further shareholder approval, to issue additional debt, common shares and preferred shares on the terms and for the consideration it deems appropriate. We have issued, and/or intend to issue, additional common shares and securities convertible into, or exchangeable or exercisable for, common shares under our equity incentive plan. We have also filed a shelf registration statement, from which we have issued and may in the future issue additional common shares, including, without limitation, through our “at-the-market” equity program and as of December 31, 2020 we have approximately $74.4 million of common shares available for issuance under that program.
We also may issue from time to time additional common shares in connection with portfolio or business acquisitions and may grant demand or piggyback registration rights in connection with such issuances. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict the effect, if any, of future issuances of our common shares, preferred shares or other equity-based securities or the prospect of such issuances on the market price of our common shares. Issuances of a substantial amount of such securities, or the perception that such issuances might occur, could depress the market price of our common shares.
Thus, holders of our common shares bear the risk that our future issuances of debt or equity securities or other borrowings will reduce the market price of our common shares and dilute their ownership in us.
Initiating new business activities or investment strategies, developing new products or significantly expanding existing business activities or investment strategies may expose us to new risks and increase our cost of doing business.
Initiating new business activities or investment strategies, developing new products, or significantly expanding existing business activities or investment strategies, are ways to grow our businesses and respond to changing circumstances in our industry; however, they may expose us to new risks and regulatory compliance requirements. We cannot be certain that we will be able to manage these risks and compliance requirements effectively. Furthermore, our efforts may not succeed and any revenues we earn from any new or expanded business initiative or investment strategy may not be sufficient to offset the initial and ongoing costs of that initiative, which would result in a loss with respect to that initiative or strategy.
We may not be able to successfully operate our business or generate sufficient operating cash flows to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders.
There can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash to pay our operating expenses and make distributions to our shareholders. The results of our operations and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders depends on many factors, including the availability of attractive risk-adjusted investment opportunities that satisfy our investment strategies and our success in identifying and consummating them on favorable terms, the level and expected movement of home prices, the level and volatility of interest rates, readily accessible short-term and long-term financing on favorable terms, and conditions in the financial markets, real estate market and the economy, as to which no assurance can be given.
We also face substantial competition in acquiring attractive investments, both in our investment activities and correspondent production activities. While we try to diversify our investments among various types of mortgages and mortgage-related assets, the
competition for such assets may compress margins and reduce yields, making it difficult for us to make investments with attractive risk-adjusted returns. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully transition out of investments producing lower returns into investments that produce better returns, or that we will not seek investments with greater risk to obtain the same level of returns. Any or all of these factors could cause the fair value of our investments to decline substantially and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations and ability to make distributions to our shareholders.
Item 1B.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 251f14882d54b7740a7523746424a8a8
- Approx. Length: 33811 characters