# Context

Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
(a)1.
Financial Statements. See “Table of Contents” on page.
(a)2.
Financial Statement Schedules. Schedule II - Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.
Other schedules are omitted because they are not required or applicable, or the required information is included in our consolidated financial statements or related notes.
(a)3.Exhibits. See “Index to Exhibits.”
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
INDEX TO EXHIBITS
Exhibit
Number
Description
2.1
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 31, 2019, among Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc., ADS Ocean Merger Sub, Inc., Infiltrator Water Technologies Ultimate Holdings, Inc. and 2461461 Ontario Limited, an Ontario corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 1, 2019).
3.1
Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 30, 2014).
3.2
Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 30, 2014).
4.1
Form of Preferred Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Amendment No. 5 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 14, 2014).
4.2
Form of Common Stock Certificate (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Amendment No. 5 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 14, 2014).
4.3
Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2014, by and among Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and the stockholders from time to time party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 30, 2014).
4.4
Description of Registrant's Securities.#
4.5
Indenture, dated September 23, 2019, among Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc., each of the guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 23, 2019).
4.6
Form of 5.000% Senior Notes due 2027 (included with Indenture, dated September 23, 2019, among Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc., each of the guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 23, 2019).
10.1
Credit Agreement, dated as of July 31, 2019, by and among Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc., Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent, the several lenders from time to time party thereto, Barclays Bank PLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers, joint bookrunners, syndication agents and documentation agents (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 1, 2019).
10.1A
First Amendment to Credit Agreement, by and among the Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc., the banks and other financial institutions or entities parties thereto, constituting all the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, the Issuing Lenders party thereto and Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 30, 2019).
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Exhibit
Number
Description
10.2
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Guarantee and Collateral Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 1, 2019).
10.3†
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Amendment No. 4 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 2, 2014).
10.4†
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Amended 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.4A†
First Amendment to Amended 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 15, 2014).
10.5†
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. 2008 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.5A†
First Amendment to the 2008 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K filed February 10, 2017).
10.6†
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. 2013 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.6A†
First Amendment to 2013 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant’s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 15, 2014).
10.6B†
Form of Amendment to Pre-2017 Stock Option Agreements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11B of Form 10-K filed May 10, 2017).
10.6C†
Form of Amendment to Pre-2017 Stock Option Agreements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11B of Form 10-K filed May 10, 2017).
10.7†
Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of September 1, 2017, by and between Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and D. Scott Barbour (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K filed August 17, 2017).
10.8†
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of June 20, 2014, by and between Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and Joseph A. Chlapaty (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.8A†
First Amendment to Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, by and between the Company and Joseph A. Chlapaty (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K filed February 10, 2017).
10.8B†
Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, by and between the Company and Joseph A. Chlapaty (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Form 8-K filed August 17, 2017).
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Exhibit
Number
Description
10.9†
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of June 20, 2014, by and between Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and Thomas M. Fussner (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.9A
First Amendment to Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement by and between the Company and Thomas M. Fussner (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-36557, filed on March 21, 2018).
10.10†
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of June 20, 2014, by and between Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and Ronald R. Vitarelli (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.11†
Amended and Restated Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of June 20, 2014, by and between Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and Robert M. Klein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.12†
Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to Amendment No. 2 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 6, 2014).
10.10†
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement pursuant to 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.10A†
Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement (post-IPO) pursuant to 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.18A to Form 10-K for the year ended March 31, 2015 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 29, 2016).
10.14†
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (other than for Joseph A. Chlapaty) pursuant to 2013 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.14A†
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (for Joseph A. Chlapaty) pursuant to 2013 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.19A to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.15†
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (other than for Joseph A. Chlapaty) pursuant to 2008 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.15A†
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (for Joseph A. Chlapaty) pursuant to 2008 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20A to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.16†
Form of Director Stock Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to Amendment No. 4 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 2, 2014).
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Exhibit
Number
Description
10.17
Participation Agreement, dated as of July 17, 2000, by and between ADS Worldwide, Inc., Grupo Altima S.A. de C.V., and ADS Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (formerly known as Sistemas Ecologicos de Drenaje, S.A. de C.V.), as amended on April 19, 2010, May 19, 2011, May 24, 2011, April 26, 2013 and January 31, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to Amendment No. 2 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 6, 2014).
10.18
Interestholders Agreement, dated as of June 5, 2009, by and among Tubos y Plasticos ADS Chile Limitada, Tigre Chile S.A., and Tuberias T-A Limitada, joined by Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and Tigre S.A. - Tubos e Conexoes, as amended on July 31, 2009, October 2009, December 15, 2009, May 18, 2010, August 10, 2010, April 1, 2011 and January 25, 2012, with First Addendum to Interestholders Agreement, dated as of June 27, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to Amendment No. 3 to the Registrant’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-194980) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 20, 2014).
10.18A
Second Addendum to Interestholders Agreement, dated as of December 1, 2013 but entered into on September 30, 2014, by and among Tubos y Plasticos ADS Chile Limitada, Tigre Chile S.A., Tuberias Tigre-ADS Limitada, Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and Tigre S.A. - Tubos e Conexoes (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 10, 2014).
10.19†
Executive Employment Agreement dated November 9, 2015, by and between the Company and Scott A. Cottrill (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K filed November 9, 2015).
10.20†
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (for Joseph A. Chlapaty) pursuant to 2008 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K filed February 10, 2017).
10.21†
Form of Restricted Stock Agreement (other than for Joseph A. Chlapaty) pursuant to 2008 Restricted Stock Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Form 8-K filed February 10, 2017).
10.22
Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement pursuant to 2013 Stock Option Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to Form 8-K filed February 10, 2017).
10.23
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-36557, filed on September 8, 2017).
10.24
Form of Restricted Stock Award Notice and Award Agreement pursuant to 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-36557, filed on September 8, 2017).
10.25
Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Options and Stock Option Award Agreement pursuant to 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-36557, filed on September 8, 2017).
10.26
Form of Director Restricted Stock Award Notice and Award Agreement pursuant to 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, File No. 001-36557, filed on November 6, 2017).
10.27
Form of Performance Unit Award Agreement pursuant to 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Form 8-K, filed on May 30, 2018).
10.28
Confidentiality Agreement by and between the Company and Joseph A. Chlapaty (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-36557, filed on August 17, 2017).
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Exhibit
Number
Description
10.29
Consulting Agreement by and between the Company and Thomas M. Fussner (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to our Current Report on Form 8-K, File No. 001-36557, filed on March 21, 2018).
10.30†
Executive Employment Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2016, by and between Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and Kevin C. Talley.
10.31†
Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, effective as of May 27, 2015, by and between Infiltrator Water Technologies, LLC and Roy E. Moore, Jr. #
10.32†
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended May 30, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-36557) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 1, 2019.
21.1
List of Subsidiaries. #
23.1
Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP. #
24.1
Power of Attorney. #
31.1
Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. #
31.2
Certification of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. #
32.1
Certification of Principal Executive Officer of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. #
32.2
Certification of Principal Financial Officer of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. #
101.INS
XBRL Instance Document. #
101.SCH
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema. #
101.CAL
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase. #
101.DEF
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase. #
101.LAB
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase. #
101.PRE
XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase. #
Cover Page Interactive Data File (formatted in Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101)
†
Management contract or compensatory plan.
#
Filed herewith.
Item 16.
Form 10-K Summary
None.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 1, 2020
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC.
By:
/s/ D. Scott Barbour
Name:
D. Scott Barbour
Title:
President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)
By:
/s/ Scott A. Cottrill
Name:
Scott A. Cottrill
Title:
Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer)
By:
/s/ Tim A. Makowski
Name:
Tim A. Makowski
Title:
Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons in their indicated capacities, on June 1, 2020.
Signature
Title
/s/ D. Scott Barbour
Director, President and Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
D. Scott Barbour
/s/ Scott A. Cottrill
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer
and Secretary (Principal Financial Officer)
Scott A. Cottrill
/s/ Tim A. Makowski
Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)
Tim A. Makowski
/s/ C. Robert Kidder**
Chairman of the Board of Directors and Director
C. Robert Kidder
/s/ Robert M. Eversole**
Director
Robert M. Eversole
/s/ Michael B. Coleman **
Director
Michael B. Coleman
/s/ Alexander R. Fischer**
Director
Alexander R. Fischer
/s/ Tanya Fratto**
Director
Tanya Fratto
/s/ M.A. (Mark) Haney**
Director
M.A. (Mark) Haney
/s/ Ross M. Jones**
Director
Ross M. Jones
/s/ Carl A. Nelson, Jr.**
Director
Carl A. Nelson, Jr.
/s/ Manuel J. Perez de la Mesa**
Director
Manuel J. Perez de la Mesa
** The undersigned, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign this report on behalf of each of the above-indicated directors of the registrant pursuant to powers of attorney executed by such directors.
By:
/s/ Scott A. Cottrill
Scott A. Cottrill, Attorney-in-fact
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Page
Audited Consolidated Financial Statements
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2020 and 2019
Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018
Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity (Deficit) and Mezzanine Equity for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Schedule II, Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the shareholders and the Board of Directors of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), shareholders' equity (deficit) and mezzanine equity, and cash flows, for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2020, and the related notes and the financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 15 (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated June 1, 2020, expressed an adverse opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting because of material weakness.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted FASB Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”), ASC 842 Leases, using the modified approach.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Acquisitions, Infiltrator Water Technologies, Customer Relationships Intangible- Refer to Note 4 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
On July 31, 2019, the Company completed its Acquisition of Infiltrator Water Technologies (IWT) for cash consideration of $1,147.2 million. The Company records acquisitions resulting in the consolidation of an enterprise using the acquisition method of accounting. Under this method, the Company allocated the fair value of purchase consideration transferred to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the date of acquisition, including customer relationships intangible asset of approximately $360.0 million. The fair value assigned is based on estimates and assumptions determined by management.
We identified the valuation of the customer relationships intangible asset as a critical audit matter because of the significant assumptions made by management to determine the fair value for purposes of the preliminary purchase price allocation. Those assumptions included revenue growth rates and EBITDA (together, the “forecasts”), as well as discount and customer attrition rates. Our performance of audit procedures to evaluate these assumptions required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of audit effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to testing the assumptions identified above included the following, among others:
•
We tested the operating effectiveness of management’s internal controls over revenue growth rates, EBITDA, and the selection of the discount and customer attrition rates.
•
We assessed the reasonableness of management’s forecasts by comparing the forecasted information used to IWT’s historical results, peer company historical results and forecasts, industry historical results and forecasts, and internal communications to management and the board of directors.
•
With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the following significant valuation assumptions:
o
Customer attrition rate by assessing the underlying data used in determining the rate and testing the mathematical accuracy of the calculation.
o
Discount rate by testing the source information underlying the determination of the discount rate and testing the mathematical accuracy of the calculation.
Goodwill, Infiltrator Water Technologies Reporting Unit - Refer to Note 8 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter Description
The Company’s evaluation of goodwill for impairment involves comparing the carrying value of each reporting unit to the estimated fair value of the reporting unit. The Company’s determination of estimated fair value of the reporting unit is determined by considering both the market approach and the income approach. The determination of the estimated fair value requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to the valuation of the reporting unit. Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting unit, the amount of any goodwill impairment charge, or both. The Company’s consolidated goodwill balance was $597.8 million as of March 31, 2020, of which $495.8 million was allocated to the IWT reporting unit, which is the reporting unit that exhibits significant sensitivity to changes in estimates and assumptions given the limited cushion between the carrying value and estimated fair value. As of March 31, 2020, the estimated fair value of the IWT reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by less than 20%.
We identified the valuation of goodwill for IWT as a critical audit matter because of the significant assumptions made by management to estimate its fair value. Those assumptions included revenue growth rates, EBITDA, and the selection of the discount rate. Our performance of audit procedures to evaluate the assumptions required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of audit effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to testing the fair value of the IWT reporting unit focused on revenue growth rates, EBITDA, and the selection of the discount rate and included the following procedures, among others:
•
We tested the operating effectiveness of management’s internal controls over revenue growth rates, EBITDA, and the selection of the discount rate.
•
We assessed the reasonableness of management’s forecasts by comparing the forecasted information used to IWT’s historical results, peer company historical results and forecasts, industry historical results and forecasts, and internal communications to management and the board of directors.
•
With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the following significant valuation assumptions:
o
The discount rate, by testing the source information underlying the determination of the discount rate and testing the mathematical accuracy of the calculation.
o
The long-term revenue growth rate in the terminal period through industry and macroeconomic benchmarking.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Columbus, Ohio
June 1, 2020
We have served as the Company's auditor since 2002.
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of March 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness identified below on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, the Company has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO.
As described in Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Infiltrator Water Technologies Ultimate Holdings, Inc. and subsidiaries, which was acquired on July 31, 2019, and whose financial statements constitute 31% of total assets, 10% of net sales, and (5%) of net income (loss), respectively, included in the consolidated financial statement as of and for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020. Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Infiltrator Water Technologies.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended March 31, 2020, of the Company and our report dated June 1, 2020, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company’s adoption of FASB ASC Topic 842, Leases, using the modified approach.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Material Weakness
A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The following material weakness has been identified and included in management's assessment: a material weakness in the internal control over financial reporting in the control environment of the Company’s consolidated joint venture affiliate, ADS Mexicana. This material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing, and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended March 31, 2020, of the Company, and this report does not affect our report on such financial statements.
/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP
Columbus, Ohio
June 1, 2020
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) AND MEZZANINE EQUITY
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) AND MEZZANINE EQUITY
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) AND MEZZANINE EQUITY
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) AND MEZZANINE EQUITY
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) AND MEZZANINE EQUITY
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT) AND MEZZANINE EQUITY
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1.
BACKGROUND AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Description of Business - Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. and subsidiaries (collectively referred to as “ADS” and the “Company”), incorporated in Delaware, designs, manufactures and markets high performance thermoplastic corrugated pipe and related water management products, primarily in North and South America and Europe. ADS’s broad product line includes corrugated high-density polyethylene (or “HDPE”) pipe, polypropylene (or “PP”) pipe and related water management products.
The Company’s fiscal year begins on April 1 and ends on March 31. Unless otherwise noted, references to “year” pertain to our fiscal year. For example, 2020 refers to fiscal 2020, which is the period from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020.
On July 31, 2019, the Company completed the Acquisition of Infiltrator Water Technologies. Infiltrator Water Technologies is a leading national provider of plastic leach field chambers and systems, septic tanks and accessories, primarily for use in residential applications. Infiltrator Water Technologies’ products are used in on-site septic wastewater treatment systems in the United States and Canada. See “Note 3. Acquisitions” for additional information on the Acquisition
The Company is managed and reports results of operations in three reportable segments: Pipe, Infiltrator Water Technologies and International. The Company also reports the results of its Allied Products and all other business segments as Allied Products & Other.
Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial statements include the Company, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, its majority owned subsidiaries, and variable interest entities (“VIEs”) of which the Company is the primary beneficiary. The Company uses the equity method of accounting for equity investments where it exercises significant influence but does not hold a controlling financial interest. Such investments are recorded in Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the related equity in earnings from these investments are included in Equity in net loss of unconsolidated affiliates in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Estimates - The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingencies and liabilities at the balance sheet date and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates include, but are not limited to, purchase accounting for the Acquisition, the allowance for doubtful accounts, valuation of inventory, useful lives of property, plant and equipment and amortizing intangible assets, determination of the proper accounting for leases, valuation of equity method investments, goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment, accounting for stock-based compensation and the ESOP, valuation of the redeemable convertible preferred stock, determination of allowances for sales returns, rebates and discounts, determination of the valuation allowance, if any, on deferred tax assets, and reserves for uncertain tax positions. Management’s estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience, current conditions and available information. Management believes the accounting estimates are appropriate and reasonably determined; however, due to the inherent uncertainties in making these estimates, actual results could differ from those estimates.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Receivables and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts - Receivables include trade receivables, net of an allowance for doubtful accounts, and other miscellaneous receivables. Receivables at March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:
As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, Other miscellaneous receivables includes insurance recoverables of approximately $3.2 million and $3.9 million, respectively, which has a corresponding liability recorded in Other accrued liabilities.
Credit is extended to customers based on an evaluation of their financial condition and collateral is generally not required. The evaluation of the customer’s financial condition is performed to reduce the risk of loss. Accounts receivable are evaluated for collectability based on numerous factors, including the length of time individual receivables are past due, past transaction history with customers, their credit worthiness and the economic environment. This estimate is periodically adjusted when management becomes aware of a situation in which there is doubt the customer does not have the ability or intention to pay its financial obligations (e.g. bankruptcy filing).
Inventories - Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The Company’s inventories are maintained on the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method. Costs include the cost of acquiring materials, including in-bound freight from vendors and freight incurred for the transportation of raw materials, tooling or finished goods between the Company’s manufacturing plants and its distribution centers, direct and indirect labor, factory overhead and certain corporate overhead costs related to the production of inventory. The portion of fixed manufacturing overhead that relates to capacity in excess of our normal capacity is expensed in the period in which it is incurred and is not included in inventory. Net realizable value of inventory is established with consideration given to deterioration, obsolescence, and other factors. The Company periodically evaluates the carrying value of inventories and adjustments are made whenever necessary to reduce the carrying value to net realizable value.
Property, Plant and Equipment and Depreciation Method - Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation, with the exception of assets acquired through acquisitions, which are initially recorded at fair value. Equipment acquired under finance lease is recorded at the present value of the future minimum lease payments. Depreciation is computed for financial reporting purposes using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets or the lease term, if shorter, as follows:
Costs of additions and major improvements are capitalized, whereas maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the life of the asset are charged to expense as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the asset accounts and any resulting gain or loss is reflected in Loss on disposal of assets and costs from exit and disposal activities in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Construction in progress is also recorded at cost and includes capitalized interest, capitalized payroll costs and related costs such as taxes and other fringe benefits.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Goodwill - The Company records acquisitions resulting in the consolidation of an enterprise using the acquisition method of accounting. Under this method, the Company records the assets acquired, including intangible assets that can be identified, and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The purchase price in excess of the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
Goodwill is reviewed annually for impairment as of March 31 or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be greater than fair value. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not considered impaired and the Company is not required to perform further testing. If the carrying value of a reporting unit’s goodwill exceeds its fair value, then the Company would record an impairment loss equal to the difference. With respect to this testing, a reporting unit is a component of the Company for which discrete financial information is available and regularly reviewed by management. The fair value of goodwill is determined by considering both the income and market approach. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates, future economic and market conditions, and determination of appropriate market comparison. The fair value estimates are based on assumptions management believes to be reasonable but are inherently uncertain. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, the Company completed a quantitative fair value assessment for all reporting units and determined no impairment charge was required. For all other fiscal years presented, ADS completed a quantitative fair value assessment of the Canada reporting unit and determined no impairment charge was required.
GAAP allows entities testing goodwill for impairment the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of a reporting unit for the goodwill impairment test. If the qualitative assessment is performed, an entity is no longer required to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit unless the entity determines that, based on that assessment, it is not more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. ADS applied the qualitative assessment to the former Domestic reporting unit for the annual impairment tests performed as of March 31, 2019 and 2018. The qualitative assessment indicated that no impairment charges were required for goodwill in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Intangible Assets
Intangible Assets - Definite-Lived - Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized using the straight-line method or an accelerated method over their estimated useful lives and are tested for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that carrying amounts of the asset group may not be recoverable. Asset groups are established primarily by determining the lowest level of cash flows available. If the estimated undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying amounts of such assets, an impairment loss is recognized to the extent the fair value of the asset less any costs of disposition is less than the carrying amount of the asset. Determining the fair value of these assets is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions.
Intangible Assets - Indefinite-Lived - Indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment annually as of March 31 or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may be greater than fair value. Determining the fair value of these assets is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The Company bases its fair value estimates on assumptions it believes to be reasonable, but that are inherently uncertain. To estimate the fair value of these indefinite-lived intangible assets, the Company uses an income approach, which utilizes a market derived rate of return to discount anticipated performance. An impairment loss is recognized when the estimated fair value of the intangible asset is less than the carrying value.
ADS completed a quantitative fair value measurement of indefinite-lived trademarks as of March 31, 2020. The test indicated that the fair value of the indefinite-lived trademarks substantially exceeded the carrying value, indicating that no impairment existed.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
GAAP allows entities testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets for the impairment test. If the qualitative assessment is performed, an entity is no longer required to calculate the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible assets unless the entity determines that, based on that assessment, it is more likely than not that its fair value is less than its carrying amount. ADS applied the qualitative assessment to specific trademarks for the annual impairment tests performed as of March 31, 2019 and 2018. For the qualitative test, ADS assessed various assumptions, events and circumstances that would have affected the estimated fair value of the reporting unit as compared to its March 31, 2016 quantitative fair value measurement. The results of this assessment indicated that it is not more likely than not that the trademarks fair value is less than the reporting unit carrying value. The Company did not incur any impairment charges for Intangible assets in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018.
Other Assets - Other assets include operating lease right of use assets, investments in unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under the equity method, capitalized software development costs, including cloud computing costs, deposits, central parts, and other miscellaneous assets. See “Note 6. Lease” for further information on the operating lease right of use assets. The Company capitalizes development costs for internal use software. Capitalization of software development costs begins in the application development stage and ends when the asset is placed into service. The Company amortizes such costs using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives of 2 to 10 years, which is included in General and administrative expense, Selling expense or Cost of goods sold within the Consolidated Statements of Operations depending on the nature of the asset and its intended use. Central parts represent spare production equipment items which are used to replace worn or broken production equipment parts and help reduce the risk of prolonged equipment outages. The cost of central parts is amortized on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives of 3 to 10 years.
The Company evaluates its investments in unconsolidated affiliates for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount might not be recoverable and recognizes an impairment loss when a decline in value below carrying value is determined to be other-than-temporary. Under these circumstances, the Company would adjust the investment down to its estimated fair value, which then becomes its new carrying value. The impairment charge is included in Equity in net loss of unconsolidated affiliates in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. See “Note 11. Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates.”
Other assets as of the fiscal years ended March 31 consisted of the following:
The following table sets forth amortization expense related to Other assets in each of the fiscal years ended March 31:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Leases - The Company determines whether an arrangement contains a lease at inception by determining if the contract conveys the right to control the use of identified plant, property, and equipment for a period of time in exchange for consideration and other facts and circumstances as defined by ASC 842. For each lease which has an accounting lease term of greater than 12 months, the Company records the right-of-use asset and lease liability on the balance sheet. The accounting lease term includes cancellable and renewal periods which are reasonably assured. The lease liability is measured utilizing the incremental borrowing rate unless the Company can specifically determine the rate implicit in the lease. Leases are evaluated for appropriate classification as operating or financing at lease inception. For leases classified as finance leases at lease inception, the Company records a finance lease asset and lease financing obligation equal to the present value of the minimum lease payments. The finance lease right of use asset is recorded in Property, plant and equipment, net and amortized to its expected residual value at the end of the lease term using the straight-line method, and the lease financing obligation is amortized using the effective interest method over the lease term with the rental payments being allocated to principal and interest. For leases classified as operating leases, the Company records the operating lease right of use asset in other assets and operating lease obligation in other accrued liabilities and other liabilities. Operating lease rent expense over the useful life using the straight-line method.
Foreign Currency Translation - Assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar are translated into U.S. dollars at the current rate of exchange on the last day of the reporting period. Revenues and expenses are translated at a monthly average exchange rate and equity transactions are translated using either the actual exchange rate on the day of the transaction or a monthly average historical exchange rate. The South American Joint Venture operates within Argentina, which on July 1, 2018, was identified for high inflationary accounting. The Company has determined the effect of a change in the exchange rate under high inflationary accounting does not have a material effect on the Company’s results in any annual period. For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’s Accumulated other comprehensive loss (“AOCL”) consisted of foreign currency translation gains and losses.
Net Sales - The Company generates revenue by selling pipe and related water management products primarily to distributors, retailers, buying groups and co-operative buying groups. Products are shipped predominately by the Company’s internal fleet, and the Company does not provide any additional revenue generating services after product delivery. Payment terms and conditions vary by contract.
Revenue is recognized at the point in-time obligations under the terms of a contract with a customer are satisfied, which generally occurs upon the transfer of control of the promised goods. In substantially all of the Company’s contracts with customers, control is transferred to the customer upon delivery. The Company recognizes revenue in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Shipping Costs - The Company incurs shipping costs to deliver products to customers using an in-house fleet or common carrier. Typically shipping costs are prepaid and included in the product price; however, in some instances, the Company bills shipping costs to customers. Shipping costs are also incurred to physically move raw materials, tooling and products between manufacturing and distribution facilities. Shipping costs to deliver products to customers for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $149.0 million, $131.3 million, and $120.7 million, respectively, and are included in Cost of goods sold. Shipping costs billed to customers were $7.9 million, $7.7 million, and $6.3 million during 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are included in Net sales.
Stock-Based Compensation - See “Note 17. Stock-Based Compensation” for information about our stock-based compensation award programs and related accounting policies.
Advertising - The Company expenses advertising costs as incurred. Advertising costs are recorded in Selling expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The total advertising costs were $4.9 million, $3.8 million, and $4.1 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Self-Insurance - The Company is self-insured for short term disability and medical coverage it provides for substantially all eligible employees. The Company is self-insured for medical claims up to the individual and aggregate stop-loss coverage limits. The Company accrues for claims incurred but not reported based on an estimate of future claims related to events that occurred prior to the fiscal year end if it has not met the aggregate stop-loss coverage limit. Amounts expensed totaled $50.3 million, $42.4 million, and $41.3 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, of which employees contributed $7.9 million, $6.7 million, and $5.9 million, respectively.
ADS is also self-insured for various other general insurance programs to the extent of the applicable deductible limits on the Company’s insurance coverage. These programs include primarily automobile, general liability and employment practices coverage with a deductible of $0.5 million per occurrence or claim incurred. Amounts expensed during the period, including an estimate for claims incurred but not reported at year end, were $2.5 million, $2.3 million, and $2.2 million, for the years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
ADS is also self-insured for workers’ compensation insurance with stop-loss coverage for claims that exceed $0.3 million per incident up to the respective state statutory limits. Amounts expensed, including an estimate for claims incurred but not reported, were $3.0 million, $2.8 million, and $1.3 million for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Income Taxes - Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized and represent the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. They are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the related temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. Valuation allowances are established against deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that the realization of those deferred tax assets will not occur. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The deferred income tax provision represents the change during the reporting period in the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. Penalties and interest recorded on income taxes payable are recorded as part of Income tax expense.
The Company determines whether an uncertain tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation process, based upon the technical merits of the position. For tax positions meeting the more likely than not threshold, the tax amount recognized in the financial statements is the largest amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the relevant taxing authority.
Fair Values - The fair value framework requires the categorization of assets and liabilities into three levels based upon assumptions (inputs) used to price the assets or liabilities. Level 1 provides the most reliable measure of fair value, whereas Level 3 generally requires significant management judgment.
ADS’s policy for determining when transfers between levels have occurred is to use the actual date of the event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer.
Concentrations of Risk - The Company has a large, active customer base of approximately twenty thousand customers with two customers, Ferguson Enterprises and Core and Main, each representing more than 10% of annual net sales. Such customers accounted for 24.3%, 25.4%, and 25.4% of fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 net sales, respectively. The Company’s customer base is diversified across the range of end markets that it serves.
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist principally of Receivables. The Company provides its products to customers based on an evaluation of the customers’ financial condition, generally without requiring collateral. Exposure to losses on Receivables is principally dependent on each customer’s financial condition. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers. The Company monitors the exposure for credit losses and maintains allowances for anticipated losses. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to Receivables are limited due to the large number of customers comprising the Company’s customer base and their dispersion across many different geographies.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
One customer, Ferguson Enterprises, accounted for approximately 18.2% and 19.1% of Receivables at March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Derivatives - The Company recognizes derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities and measure those instruments at fair value. ADS uses interest rate swaps, commodity options in the form of collars and swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts to manage various exposures to interest rate, commodity price, and exchange rate fluctuations. These instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. For the interest rate swap executed on June 28, 2017, gains and losses resulting from the difference between the spot rate and applicable base rate was recorded in Interest expense. For commodity options in the form of collars and swaps, and foreign currency forward contracts, gains and losses from contract settlements and changes in fair value of the derivative instruments are recognized in Derivative losses (gains) and other expense (income), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company’s policy is to present all derivative balances on a gross basis.
The Company also has forward purchase agreements in place with certain resin suppliers for virgin polyethylene resin. The agreements specify a fixed amount of virgin resin material to be purchased at a fixed price for a given period of time in quantities the Company will use in the normal course of business, and therefore, qualify as normal purchase contracts. The cost of such resin is recognized in Cost of goods sold in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance
Leases - In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the “FASB”) issued an accounting standard update (“ASU”) which amends the guidance for leases (“ASC 842”). This standard contains principles that will require an entity to recognize most leases on the balance sheet by recording a right-of-use asset and a lease liability, unless the lease is a short-term lease that has an accounting lease term of twelve months or less. The standard also contains other changes to the current lease guidance that may result in changes to how entities determine which contractual arrangements qualify as a lease, the accounting for executory costs, such as property taxes and insurance, as well as which lease origination costs will be capitalizable. In July 2018, the FASB amended ASC 842 to provide another transition method, allowing a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings during the period of adoption. The Company adopted these standards effective April 1, 2019 using the transition method in the July 2018 ASU which does not require adjustments to comparative periods or require modified disclosures for those periods and includes transition relief practical expedients. See “Note 6. Leases” for further information on the adoption of the new lease ASUs.
Hedge Accounting - In August 2017, the FASB issued an ASU which expanded an entity’s ability to apply hedge accounting for non-financial and financial risk components and provided a simplified approach for fair value hedging of interest rate risk. The standard also refined how entities assess hedge effectiveness. The Company adopted this standard effective April 1, 2019. The new standard did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted
Measurement of Credit Losses - In June 2016, the FASB issued an ASU which provides amended guidance on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments, including trade receivables. This standard requires the use of an impairment model referred to as the current expected credit loss model. This standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those years, and early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018. The Company will adopt this standard effective April 1, 2020. The Company’s adoption of the standard will not have a material impact on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Reference Rate Reform - In March 2020, the FASB issued an ASU that provides optional expedients and exceptions related to financial reporting impacts related to the expected market transition from LIBOR to another reference rates. The amendments are effective on March 12, 2020 and an entity may elect to adopt prospectively through December 31, 2022. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this standard on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Income Taxes - In December 2019, the FASB issued an ASU to simplify the accounting for income taxes by removing certain exceptions to the general principles in ASC 740, Income Taxes and improve the comparability of financial statements. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, and early adoption is permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of this standard on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Except for the pronouncements described above, there have been no new accounting pronouncements issued or adopted since the filing of the fiscal 2019 Form 10-K that have significance, or potential significance, to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
2.
LOSS ON DISPOSAL OF ASSETS AND COSTS FROM EXIT AND DISPOSAL ACTIVITIES
In fiscal 2018, the Company initiated restructuring activities (the “2018 Restructuring Plan”), which concluded during fiscal 2019, including closing underutilized manufacturing facilities, reducing headcount, optimizing product offerings and eliminating nonessential costs, designed to improve the Company’s cost structure. The Company closed one and four manufacturing facilities in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The Company does not currently have a specified restructuring plan. The following table summarizes the activity included in Loss on disposal of assets and costs from exit and disposal activities recorded during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
The following table summarizes the activity included in loss on disposal of assets and costs from exit and disposal activities recorded during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
Approximately $1.2 million and $0.4 million for fiscal year ended March 31, 2019, related to the Pipe and International reportable segment, respectively, and $11.0 million and $0.4 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 of the Total 2018 Restructuring Plan activities related to the Pipe and International reporting segment, respectively.
All of the Company’s restructuring liability related to the Pipe reportable segment. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of restructuring liability related to the 2018 Restructuring Plan for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The Company had $0.1 million and $0.6 million of long-term severance liability related to the restructuring activities recorded in Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively.
Periodically, the Company will dispose of equipment, including equipment accounted for as finance leases. The net loss on the disposition of the equipment was $2.8 million, $2.0 million, and $3.6 million during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
3.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
On April 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”), and all related amendments using the modified retrospective transition method. The adoption of ASC 606 did not impact the opening retained earnings balance or cause a material shift in the amount or timing of revenue recognition. Results for reporting periods beginning after April 1, 2018 are presented under ASC 606, while prior period amounts were not adjusted and continue to be reported in a consistent manner with historical accounting policies.
The Company generates revenue by selling pipe and related water management products primarily to distributors, retailers, buying groups and co-operative buying groups. Products are shipped predominately by the Company’s internal fleet, and the Company does not provide any additional revenue generating services after product delivery. Payment terms and conditions vary by contract.
Revenue is recognized at the point in-time obligations under the terms of a contract with a customer are satisfied, which generally occurs upon the transfer of control of the promised goods. In substantially all of the Company’s contracts with customers, control is transferred to the customer upon delivery. The Company recognizes revenue in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. Revenue is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Operations net of allowances for returns, rebates, discounts, and taxes collected concurrently with revenue-producing activities.
The Company disaggregates net sales by Domestic, International and Infiltrator Water Technologies and further disaggregates Domestic and International by product type, consistent with its reportable segment disclosure. This disaggregation level best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors. Refer to “Note 21. Business Segments Information” for the Company’s disaggregation of Net sales by reportable segment.
Significant Judgments - The Company’s performance obligation under contracts with customers is to sell and deliver pipe and related water management products. The Company’s contracts with customers may contain multiple performance obligations by promising to deliver multiple products to the customer. For these contracts, the Company accounts for individual performance obligations separately if they are distinct. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis.
The Company’s products are generally sold with a right of return, and the Company may provide credits or incentives, which are accounted for as variable consideration when estimating the amount of revenue to recognize. Variable consideration is estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period as additional information becomes available and only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of any incremental revenue will not occur.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Contract Balances - The Company recognizes a contract asset representing the Company’s right to recover products upon the receipt of returned products and a contract liability for the customer refund. The adoption of this standard resulted in the Company recording a contract asset for estimated inventory returns. On April 1, 2018, the estimated inventory returns resulted in a $0.6 million decrease in Receivables, net and a $0.6 million increase in Other current assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The following table presents the balance of the Company’s contract asset and liability as of March 31, 2020 and April 1, 2019:
Practical Expedients and Exemptions - The Company expenses incremental costs to obtain a contract (e.g. sales commissions) when incurred as the amortization period would have been one year or less. These costs are recorded within selling expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company elected the accounting policy election permitted by ASC 606 to account for shipping and handling costs as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the goods when these activities are performed after a customer obtains control of the goods.
The Company elected the accounting policy to exclude from the transaction price all sales taxes that are assessed by a governmental authority and that are imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and collected by the Company from a customer, for example, sales, use, value added, and some excise taxes.
Further, the Company does not disclose the value of unsatisfied performance obligations for contracts with an original expected length of one year or less.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
4.
ACQUISITIONS
Fiscal 2020 Acquisition of Infiltrator Water Technologies
On July 31, 2019 (the “Closing Date”), the Company completed its Acquisition of Infiltrator Water Technologies pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) dated July 31, 2019. Infiltrator Water Technologies manufactures and sells wastewater systems for homes and provides drainage chambers for septic and storm water management. The total fair value of consideration transferred was $1,147.2 million. The Merger Agreement was funded through the Bridge Loan Facility as further described in “Note 13. Debt”. The results of operations of Infiltrator Water Technologies are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations after July 31, 2019.
The following table summarizes the consideration transferred and the preliminary purchase price allocation of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The Company’s estimates and assumptions are subject to change during the measurement period. The measurement period ends on July 31, 2020. Any changes to the Company’s estimates or assumptions may result in material changes from the preliminary purchase price allocations.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The fair value of consideration transferred includes $6.0 million of Infiltrator Water Technologies payable to the Company and $6.6 million of Infiltrator Water Technologies receivable due from the Company.
The goodwill of $495.8 million represents the excess of consideration transferred over the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and is attributable to expected revenue synergies, as well as operating efficiencies and cost savings. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes and is assigned to the Infiltrator Water Technologies segment.
Of the $132.4 million of preliminary purchase price allocated to deferred tax liabilities, $82.3 million related to the step up of GAAP basis for fair market valuations, while the remaining $50.1 million were acquired deferred tax liabilities. Of the total $82.3 million, $80.2 million was attributed to intangible assets. See “Note 18. Income Taxes” for additional information.
The purchase price excludes transaction costs. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, the Company incurred $22.9 million of transaction costs related to the Acquisition such as legal, accounting, valuation and other professional services. The Company estimates approximately $7.3 million of transaction costs are not deductible for tax purposes. These costs are included in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.
The identifiable intangible assets recorded in connection with the closing of the Acquisition are based on valuations including customer relationships, patents and developed technology, and tradename and trademarks totaling $575.0 million. Customer relationships are amortized using an accelerated method over an estimated useful life of 20 years. Patents and developed technology and tradename and trademarks are on a straight-line basis over the respective useful lives of 10 and 20 years.
The net sales to external customers of Infiltrator Water Technologies since the acquisition are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 was $169.3 million. The income before taxes of Infiltrator Water Technologies since the acquisition are included in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 was $8.2 million
The unaudited pro forma information for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 presented below includes the effects of the Acquisition as if it had been consummated as of April 1, 2017, with adjustments to give effect to pro forma events that are directly attributable to the Acquisition. Adjustments include those related to the amortization of acquired intangible assets, increases in interest expense due to additional borrowings incurred to finance the Acquisition, transaction costs, the elimination of transactions between the Company and Infiltrator Water Technologies and the estimated tax impacts thereof. The unaudited pro forma information does not reflect any operating efficiency or potential cost savings that could result from the consolidation of Infiltrator Water Technologies. Accordingly, the unaudited pro forma information is presented for informational purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of the actual results of the combined company if the Acquisition had occurred at the beginning of the period presented, nor is it indicative of the future results of operations.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Fiscal 2019 Acquisition of Noncontrolling interest in BaySaver
BaySaver Technologies LLC (“BaySaver”) was a joint venture that was established to produce and distribute water quality filters and separators used in the removal of sediment and pollution from storm water. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, ADS purchased the remaining 35% ownership interest in BaySaver for a purchase price of $8.8 million. The purchase of the remaining 35% ownership interest was reflected as a reduction in the Redeemable noncontrolling interest in subsidiary in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and as a financing activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Additionally, resulting from this transaction, the Company recorded a $0.4 million non-cash adjustment to deferred taxes. BaySaver is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADS.
Fiscal 2018 Acquisition of DURASLOT, Inc.
On August 1, 2017, ADS acquired DURASLOT, Inc., a manufacturer of linear surface drains, for $2.3 million. The acquisition included approximately $2.1 million of tax-deductible goodwill. The acquisition of DURASLOT, Inc. is included in Other investing activities on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
5.
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Property, plant and equipment, net as of the fiscal years ended March 31 consisted of the following:
The following table sets forth depreciation expense related to Property, plant and equipment in each of the fiscal years ended March 31:
(1)
Depreciation expense does not include accelerated depreciation expense from the 2018 Restructuring plan. See “Note 2. Loss on Disposal of Assets and Costs from Exit and Disposal Activities” for additional discussion.
6.
LEASES
ASC 842 Adoption - The Company adopted the provisions of ASC 842 beginning on April 1, 2019 using the transition methodology in ASC 842 which does not require adjustments to comparative periods or require modified disclosures. The Company elected the transition relief practical expedient package as described in ASC 842-10-65-1. ASC 842 provides lessees with the option of electing an accounting policy, by class of underlying asset, in which the lessee may choose not to separate nonlease components from lease components. The Company elected this practical expedient for leases of certain classes of equipment, including forklifts and fleet tractors and trailers. The Company also elected the accounting policy to not recognize the right-of-use asset and lease liability for leases with an accounting lease term of twelve months or less (“Short-term leases”). The adoption of ASC 842 resulted in the recording of $13.3 million of additional lease liabilities and right-of-use assets to the beginning balance of the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. Infiltrator Water Technologies adopted ASC 842 on July 31, 2019 using the same methodology and policy elections taken by the Company on April 1, 2019. The Infiltrator Water Technologies adoption of ASC 842 resulted in the recording of $11.2 million of additional lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets to the beginning balance of the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. At the date of adoption, ASC 842 did not have an impact on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Nature of the Company’s Leases - The Company has operating and finance leases for plants, yards, corporate offices, tractors, trailers and other equipment. The Company’s leases have remaining terms of less than one year to 30 years. A portion of the Company’s real estate leases include an option to extend the leases for up to 5 years. The Company has included renewal options which are reasonably certain to be exercised in its right-of-use assets and lease liabilities.
The Company’s lease payments are generally fixed. Certain equipment leases contain residual value guarantees that create a contingent obligation on the part of the Company to compensate the lessor if the leased asset cannot be sold for an amount in excess of a specified minimum value at the conclusion of the lease term. The calculation is based on the original cost of the transportation equipment, less lease payments made, compared to a percentage of the transportation equipment’s fair market value at the time of sale. All leased units covered by this guarantee have been classified as finance leases and a corresponding finance lease obligation was recorded. Therefore, no contingent obligation is needed.
For all leases with an initial expected term of more than 12 months, the Company recorded, at the adoption date of ASC 842 or lease commencement date for leases entered into after the adoption date, a lease liability, which is the lessee’s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee’s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. The Company will utilize its collateralized incremental borrowing rate commensurate to the lease term as the discount rate for its leases, unless the Company can specifically determine the lessor’s implicit rate. The incremental borrowing rate for each lease is determined based on the Company’s credit rating, adjusted for the impacts of collateral, and the lease term.
Lease Cost - The components of lease cost for the year ended March 31, 2020 was:
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 was as follows:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
(a)
The Company acquired $27.6 million and $26.8 million of property, plant and equipment under finance leases in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, respectively.
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases as of March 31, 2020 was as follows:
The following is a schedule by year of future minimum lease payments on a rolling twelve-month basis under operating and finance leases and the present value of the net minimum lease payments as of March 31, 2020:
Disclosures Related to Periods Prior to the Adoption of ASC 842 - Leased assets included in Property, plant and equipment as of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 consisted of the following:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The following sets forth the interest and depreciation expense related to capital leases recorded in each fiscal year ended March 31:
As of March 31, 2019, total contractual obligations for capital and operating leases were as follows:
7.
INVENTORIES
Inventories as of the fiscal years ended March 31 consisted of the following:
The Company had no work-in-process inventories as of March 31, 2020 and 2019.
During fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company incurred production-related general and administrative costs included in the cost of finished goods inventory of $38.8 million and $29.4 million, respectively, of which $8.6 million and $8.2 million remained in inventory at March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
8.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill - The carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment is as follows:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Intangible Assets - Intangible assets as of March 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following:
(a)
Indefinite-lived intangible assets decreased as a result of foreign currency translation.
The gross intangible asset value of developed technology, customer relationships and trademarks and tradenames increased as a result of the Acquisition. See “Note 4. Acquisitions” for additional information.
The following table presents the amortization expense and weighted average amortization period for definite-lived intangible assets at March 31, 2020:
The following table presents the future intangible asset amortization expense based on existing intangible assets at March 31, 2020:
9.
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
When applying fair value principles in the valuation of assets and liabilities, the Company is required to maximize the use of quoted market prices and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. The Company has not changed its valuation techniques used in measuring the fair value of any financial assets or liabilities during the fiscal years presented. The fair value estimates take into consideration the credit risk of both the Company and its counterparties.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
When active market quotes are not available for financial assets and liabilities, ADS uses industry standard valuation models. Where applicable, these models project future cash flows and discount the future amounts to a present value using market-based observable inputs including credit risk, interest rate curves, foreign currency rates and forward and spot prices for currencies. In circumstances where market-based observable inputs are not available, management judgment is used to develop assumptions to estimate fair value. Generally, the fair value of our Level 3 instruments is estimated as the net present value of expected future cash flows based on internal and external inputs.
Recurring Fair Value Measurements
The assets, liabilities and mezzanine equity carried at fair value as of the fiscal years ended March 31 were as follows:
(a)
The fair value of the contingent consideration for acquisitions is based on management’s estimate of contractual payments based on future product certifications obtained.
The contingent consideration for acquisitions are recorded at their fair value based on a discounted cash flow valuation technique. The Company’s unobservable input is the weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”) which represents discount rates or rates of return estimates and assumptions that the Company believes would be used by market participants when valuing these liabilities. The Company’s weighted average cost of capital was approximately 9.5% as of March 31, 2020 and 2019.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Changes in the fair value of recurring fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:
There were no transfers in or out of Level 3 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019.
Valuation of Contingent Consideration for Acquisitions - The method used to price these liabilities is considered Level 3, due to the subjective nature of the unobservable inputs used to determine the fair value.
Valuation of Debt - The carrying amounts of current financial assets and liabilities approximate fair value because of the immediate or short-term maturity of these items, or in the case of derivative instruments, because they are recorded at fair value. The carrying and fair value of the Company’s Senior Notes (discussed in “Note 13. Debt”) were $350.0 million and $315.0 million, respectively, as of March 31, 2020 and $100.0 million and $98.9 million, respectively, at March 31, 2019. The fair value of the Senior Notes was determined based on a comparison of the interest rate and terms of such borrowings to the rates and terms of similar debt available for the period. The Company believes the carrying amount on the remaining long-term debt, including the Secured Bank Loans, is not materially different from its fair value as the interest rates and terms of the borrowings are similar to currently available borrowings. The categorization of the framework used to evaluate this debt is considered Level 2.
10.
INVESTMENT IN CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
ADS participates in one consolidated joint venture, ADS Mexicana, which is 51% owned by the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary ADS Worldwide, Inc. The equity owned by the Company’s joint venture partner is shown as Noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the joint venture partner’s portion of net income is shown as Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
ADS participated in an additional joint venture, BaySaver. In the third quarter of fiscal 2019, the Company acquired the noncontrolling interest in BaySaver. As a result, BaySaver is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company after the acquisition. Prior to the acquisition, the equity owned by the Company’s joint venture partner was shown as Redeemable noncontrolling interest in subsidiaries in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and the joint venture partner’s portion of net income is shown as Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
ADS Mexicana - ADS participates in joint ventures for the purpose of expanding upon the growth of manufacturing and selling HDPE corrugated pipe and PVC conduit in emerging markets. ADS invested in ADS Mexicana for the purpose of expanding upon our growth of manufacturing and selling ADS licensed HDPE corrugated pipe and related products in the Mexican and Central American markets via the joint venture partner’s local presence and expertise throughout the region. The Company owns a 51% equity interest in ADS Mexicana. The Company executed a Technology, Patents and Trademarks Sub-License Agreement and a Distribution Agreement with ADS Mexicana that provides ADS Mexicana with the rights to manufacture and sell ADS licensed products in Mexico and Central America. The Company has concluded that it holds a variable interest in and is the primary beneficiary of ADS Mexicana based on the power to direct the most significant activities of ADS Mexicana and the obligation to absorb losses and the right to
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
receive benefits that could be significant to ADS Mexicana. As the primary beneficiary, the Company is required to consolidate the assets and liabilities of ADS Mexicana.
The table below includes the assets and liabilities of ADS Mexicana that are consolidated as of March 31, 2020 and 2019. The balances exclude intercompany transactions that are eliminated upon consolidation.
11.
INVESTMENT IN UNCONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
The Company participates in an unconsolidated joint venture, South American Joint Venture, which is 50% owned by the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary ADS Chile. Prior to April 2018, the Company participated in an unconsolidated joint venture, Tigre-ADS USA, Inc. (“Tigre-ADS USA”), which was 49% owned by the Company’s wholly-owned subsidiary ADS Ventures, Inc.
South American Joint Venture - The Company’s investment in this unconsolidated joint venture was formed for the purpose of expanding upon the growth of manufacturing and selling HDPE corrugated pipe in the South American market via the joint venture partner’s local presence and expertise throughout the region. The Company has concluded that it is appropriate to account for this investment using the equity method, whereby the Company’s share of the income or loss of the joint venture is reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations under Equity in net loss (income) of unconsolidated affiliates and the Company’s investment in the joint venture is included in Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company is not required to consolidate the South American Joint Venture as it is not the primary beneficiary, although the Company does hold significant variable interests in the South American Joint Venture through the equity investment and debt guarantee.
In order to improve the South American Joint Venture’s working capital position and allow it to reallocate capital resources to business growth, the Company and the joint venture partner each contributed equal amounts of outstanding receivables owed to them from the South American Joint Venture in exchange for incremental ownership interest in the South American Joint Venture in December 2017. The Company and the joint venture partner continue to maintain a 50% ownership interest in the South American Joint Venture following the contribution. As a result of the transaction the Company contributed receivables of approximately $5.8 million net of a $3.0 million allowance for doubtful accounts and recorded an additional investment in the South American Joint Venture at the fair value of $4.7 million and a $1.9 million gain on the book value of the receivables. The investment is recorded within Other assets on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets and the gain is recorded within Equity in net (income) loss of unconsolidated affiliates on the Company’s Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Past impairment charges have resulted in a basis difference between the cost of the investment and the amount of underlying equity in net assets of the South American Joint Venture of $3.7 million and $4.0 million as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The basis difference will be amortized over the estimated remaining useful life of the underlying property, plant and equipment, 7 years. The Company recognized $0.3 million, $0.4 million and $0.5 million of amortization of the basis difference in fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The impairment charge is included in Equity in net loss of unconsolidated affiliates in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Tigre-ADS USA - The former joint venture was established to manufacture and sell PVC fittings for waterworks, plumbing, and HVAC applications primarily in the United States and Canadian markets. The joint venture represented a continuation of the activities of Tigre-ADS USA through its Janesville, Wisconsin manufacturing facility. The Company was not required to consolidate Tigre-ADS USA as it was not the primary beneficiary, although the Company did hold a significant variable interest in Tigre-ADS USA through the equity investment.
In April 2018, the Company and the joint venture partner agreed to exchange the Company’s shares of Tigre-ADS USA for a release from the existing debt guarantees. Following the exchange, the Company no longer has an interest in Tigre-ADS USA. As a result of the agreement, the Company determined there was an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of its investment in Tigre-ADS USA. Accordingly, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $0.3 million, reducing the carrying value of the investment to its fair value. The impairment charge is included in Equity in net loss of unconsolidated affiliates in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
12. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
ADS Mexicana - ADS conducts business in Mexico and Central America through its joint venture ADS Mexicana. ADS Mexicana’s Revolving Credit Facility expired on June 22, 2018 and was replaced by an Intercompany Revolving Credit Promissory Note (the “Intercompany Note”) with a borrowing capacity of $12.0 million. The Intercompany Note matures on June 22, 2022. The Intercompany Note indemnifies the ADS Mexicana joint venture partner for 49% of any unpaid borrowing. The interest rates under the Intercompany Note are determined by certain base rates or London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus an applicable margin based on the Leverage Ratio. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, there were no borrowings under the Intercompany Note.
South American Joint Venture - The Company’s South American Joint Venture manufactures and sells HDPE corrugated pipe in the South American market. ADS is the guarantor for 50% of the South American Joint Venture’s credit facility, and the debt guarantee is shared equally with the joint venture partner. The maximum potential obligation under this guarantee totals $11.0 million as of March 31, 2020. The maximum borrowing permitted under the South American Joint Venture’s credit facility is $22.0 million. This credit facility allows borrowings in either Chilean pesos or US dollars at a fixed interest rate determined at inception of each draw on the facility. The guarantee of the South American Joint Venture’s debt expires on December 31, 2020. ADS does not anticipate any required contributions related to the balance of this credit facility. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, the outstanding principal balance of the credit facility including letters of credit was $9.3 million and $12.3 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2020, there were no U.S. dollar denominated loans. The weighted average interest rate as of March 31, 2020 was 5.32% on Chilean peso denominated loans.
ADS and the South American Joint Venture have entered into shared services arrangements in order to execute the joint venture services. Occasionally, the South American Joint Venture enters into agreements for pipe sales with ADS and its other related parties, which were $0.7 million, $1.3 million and $2.1 million in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. ADS pipe sales to the South American Joint Venture were $0.9 million, $1.2 million and $0.4 million in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Tigre-ADS USA - Tigre-ADS USA was a joint venture established to manufacture and sell PVC fittings for waterworks, plumbing, and HVAC applications primarily in the United States and Canadian markets. ADS owned 49% of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Tigre-ADS USA. The joint venture represented a continuation of the existing activities of Tigre-ADS USA through its Janesville, Wisconsin manufacturing facility. In April 2018, the Company and the joint venture partner agreed to exchange the Company’s shares of Tigre-ADS USA for a release from the existing debt guarantees. Following the exchange, the Company no longer has an interest in Tigre-ADS USA. Following the exchange of Tigre-ADS USA shares, the Company still considers Tigre-ADS USA a related party as a result of the Company’s joint venture in the South American Joint Venture discussed above.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
ADS purchased $2.0 million, $0.3 million and $2.0 million of Tigre-ADS USA manufactured products for use in the production of ADS products during fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
13.
DEBT
Long-term debt as of the fiscal years ended March 31 consisted of the following:
Bridge Credit Facility
On July 31, 2019, the Company entered into a credit agreement (the “Base Credit Agreement”) by and among the Company, as borrower, Barclays Bank PLC, as administrative agent, the several lenders from time to time party thereto.
The Base Credit Agreement provided for a term loan facility in an initial aggregate principal amount of up to $1.3 billion (the “Bridge Loan Facility”), a revolving credit facility in an initial aggregate principal amount of up to $350 million (the “Bridge Revolving Credit Facility”), a letter of credit sub-facility in the initial aggregate available amount of up to $50 million, as a sublimit of such Revolving Credit Facility (the “Bridge L/C Facility”) and a swing line sub-facility in the aggregate available amount of up to $50 million, as a sublimit of the Revolving Credit Facility (together with the Bridge Loan Facility, the Bridge Revolving Credit Facility and the Bridge L/C Facility, the “Bridge Credit Facility”).
On July 31, 2019, the Company borrowed approximately $1.3 billion under the Bridge Loan Facility and $145 million under the Bridge Revolving Credit Facility, which amounts were to (i) finance the consideration paid in connection with the closing of the Acquisition, (ii) repay the total outstanding amount as of the Closing Date under the Company’s then existing revolving credit facility with PNC, (iii) repay outstanding amounts of existing indebtedness incurred by Infiltrator Water Technologies under its outstanding credit facility in effect prior to the Acquisition, and (iv) pay certain transaction fees and expenses associated with the Acquisition and the Bridge Loan Facility. Approximately $300.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Base Credit Agreement were repaid on September 10, 2019 with proceeds from the Company’s public offering of common stock as further described in “Note 19. Net Income Per Share and Stockholders’ Equity” and approximately $300.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Bridge Loan Facility were repaid on September 23, 2019 with proceeds from the Company’s offering of $350.0 million Senior Notes, as defined and further described below.
As a result of this borrowing, on July 31, 2019, the Company initially capitalized approximately $46.9 million of deferred financing fees associated with the Bridge Credit Facility. This amount was later reduced by $14.9 million due to refunds received by ADS. The remaining deferred financing costs were written off due to loss on early extinguishment of debt resulting from the $300.0 million principal payment primarily from the Common Stock Offering, $300.0 million principal payment from the issuance of Senior Notes due 2027, and $700.0 million principal payment from the issuance of the Senior Secured Credit Facility on September 24, 2019. These financings resulted in the Company treating the Bridge Credit Facility as having been extinguished and replaced with the Common Stock Offering, Senior Notes due 2027 and the syndicated Senior Secured Credit Facility for accounting purposes under ASC 470-50. The loss on early extinguishment of debt,
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
which is included in interest expense in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations, primarily reflects the write-off of unamortized debt issuance costs and discounts.
Repayment of Prudential Senior Notes
On July 29, 2019, the Company repaid in full all of its and its subsidiaries’ indebtedness and other obligations totaling $104.4 million under that certain Second Amended and Restated Private Shelf Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2017 (as amended the “Shelf Note Agreement”) of the Company’s Senior Notes (“Prudential Senior Notes”), by and among the Company, as issuer, the guarantors from time to time a party thereto, PGIM, Inc., as a purchaser and the other purchasers from time to time a party thereto. The Company repaid the outstanding indebtedness under the Shelf Note Agreement using borrowings from the Company’s Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement (the “PNC Credit Agreement”) as in effect as of July 29, 2019. Concurrently with the repayment, the Shelf Noteholders authorized and directed PNC Bank, National Association, in its capacity as Collateral Agent (as defined in the Shelf Note Agreement) to release the security interests and liens securing the Shelf Note Agreement and the Shelf Note Agreement was terminated.
As a result of the repayment described above, the Company expensed approximately $4.2 million primarily consisting of prepayment premium or penalty associated with the debt payoff activity and the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, as the payoff meets the criteria to be accounted for as a debt extinguishment.
Repayment of PNC Credit Agreement
On the Closing Date, using borrowings of the new Bridge Loan Facility the Company repaid in full all of its and its subsidiaries indebtedness and other obligations totaling $239.2 million under the PNC Credit Agreement. Concurrently with the repayment, all security interests and liens held by the Collateral Agent (as defined in the PNC Credit Agreement) securing the PNC Credit Agreement were terminated and released and the PNC Credit Agreement was terminated.
As a result of the repayment described above, the Company expensed approximately $2.0 million primarily consisting of the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees associated with the debt payoff activity, as the payoff meets the criteria to be accounted for as a debt extinguishment.
Issuance of Senior Notes due 2027
On September 23, 2019, the Company issued $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior notes due 2027 (the “Senior Notes”) pursuant to an Indenture, dated September 23, 2019 (the “Indenture”), among the Company, the guarantors party thereto (the “Guarantors”) and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (the “Trustee”). The Senior Notes are guaranteed by each of the Company’s present and future direct and indirect wholly owned domestic subsidiaries that is a guarantor under the Company's Senior Secured Credit Facility. The Senior Notes were offered and sold either to persons reasonably believed to be “qualified institutional buyers” pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”) or to persons outside the United States under Regulation S of the Securities Act.
Interest on the Senior Notes will be payable semi-annually in cash in arrears on March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing on March 31, 2020, at a rate of 5.0% per annum. The Senior Notes will mature on September 30, 2027. The Company used the majority of the net proceeds from the offering of the Senior Notes for the repayment of $300.0 million of its outstanding borrowings under the Company’s Bridge Loan Facility. The deferred financing costs associated with the Senior Notes totaled $2.1 million and are recorded as a direct reduction from the carrying amount of the related debt.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The Company may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at any time on or after September 30, 2022 at established redemption prices. At any time prior to September 30, 2022, the Company may also redeem up to 40% of the Senior Notes with net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at a redemption price equal to 105.0% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date. In addition, at any time prior to September 30, 2022, the Company may redeem the Senior Notes, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the redemption date plus an applicable “make-whole” premium.
The Indenture contains customary events of default, including, among other things, payment default, failure to comply with covenants or agreements contained in the Indenture or the Senior Notes and certain provisions related to bankruptcy events. The Indenture also contains customary negative covenants.
New Senior Secured Credit Facility
On September 24, 2019, the Company successfully completed a $700 million syndication of the remaining balance of the Bridge Credit Facility subsequent to the aforementioned Common Stock Offering and Senior Notes due 2027 and in connection with the syndication, the Company amended the Base Credit Agreement (the “Senior Secured Credit Facility”). The Senior Secured Credit Facility reduced the applicable margin utilized in the determination of the interest rate, as well as other provisions.
The Senior Secured Credit Facility provides for a term loan facility in an initial aggregate principal amount of $700 million (the “Term Loan Facility”), a revolving credit facility in an initial aggregate principal amount of up to $350 million (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), a letter of credit sub-facility in the initial aggregate available amount of up to $50 million, as a sublimit of such Revolving Credit Facility (the “L/C Facility”) and a swing line sub-facility in the aggregate available amount of up to $50 million, as a sublimit of the Revolving Credit Facility (together with the Term Loan Facility, the Revolving Credit Facility and the L/C Facility, the “Senior Secured Credit Facility”). During fiscal 2020, the Company prepaid $51.8 million of the Term Loan Facility. Letters of credit outstanding at March 31, 2020 amounts to $8.5 million and reduced the availability of the Revolving Credit Facility.
In connection with entering into the Senior Secured Credit Facility, the Company capitalized approximately $0.4 million in deferred financing fees. To the extent not previously paid, all then-outstanding amounts under the Term Loan Facility are due and payable on the maturity date of the Term Loan Facility, which is seven years from the Closing Date. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are available beginning on September 24, 2019 and, to the extent not previously paid, all then-outstanding amounts under the Revolving Credit Facility are due and payable on the maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility, which is five years from the Closing Date.
At the option of the Company, borrowings under the Term Loan Facility and under the Revolving Credit Facility (subject to certain limitations) bear interest at either a base rate (as determined pursuant to the Senior Secured Credit Facility) or at a Eurocurrency Rate, based on LIBOR (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility), plus the applicable margin as set forth therein from time to time. In the case of the Revolving Credit Facility, the applicable margin is based on the Company’s consolidated senior secured net leverage ratio (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility). All borrowings under the Term Loan Facility used to finance the Merger Consideration as described above initially bear interest at a Eurocurrency Rate applicable to Eurocurrency Loans (as defined in the Senior Secured Credit Facility) denominated in U.S. Dollars.
The Company is also required to pay a commitment fee that is based upon the undrawn amounts of the Revolving Credit Facility at a rate per annum based upon a calculated ratio as prescribed within the Senior Secured Credit Facility. As of March 31, 2020, the rate the Company was committed to paying on the undrawn portion was equal to 0.2%.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The Company’s obligations under the Senior Secured Credit Facility have been secured by granting a first priority lien on substantially all of the Company’s assets (subject to certain exceptions and limitations), and each of StormTech, LLC, Advanced Drainage of Ohio, Inc. and Infiltrator Water Technologies, LLC (collectively the “Guarantors”) has agreed to guarantee the obligations of the Company under the Senior Secured Credit Facility and to secure the obligations thereunder by granting a first priority lien in substantially all of such Guarantor’s assets (subject to certain exceptions and limitations).
Principal Maturities - Maturities of long-term debt (excluding interest and deferred financing costs) as of March 31, 2020 are summarized below:
14.
DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS
The Company uses interest rate swaps and commodity options in the form of collars and swaps to manage its various exposures to interest rate and commodity price fluctuations. For the interest rate swap executed on June 28, 2017, gains and losses resulting from the difference between the spot rate and applicable base rate is recorded in Interest expense. The Company’s interest rate swap was terminated during the year ended March 31, 2020 in conjunction with the new Senior Secured Credit Facility. For collars and commodity swaps, contract settlement gains and losses are recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Derivative gains and other income, net. Gains and losses related to mark-to-market adjustments for changes in fair value of the derivative contracts are also recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Derivative gains and other income, net.
A summary of the fair values for the various derivatives at March 31, 2020 and 2019 is presented below:
The Company recorded net losses and net (gains) on mark-to-market adjustments for changes in the fair value of derivative contracts as well as net losses and net (gains) on the settlement of derivative contracts as follows:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
15.
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Purchase Commitments
The Company has historically secured supplies of resin raw material by agreeing to purchase quantities during a future given period at a fixed price. These purchase contracts typically ranged from 1 to 12 months and occur in the ordinary course of business. The Company, also, enters into equipment purchase contracts with manufacturers. The Company does not have any outstanding purchase commitments as of March 31, 2020.
Litigation and Other Proceedings
The Company is involved from time to time in various legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, including but not limited to commercial disputes, environmental matters, employee related claims, intellectual property disputes and litigation in connection with transactions including acquisitions and divestitures. The Company does not believe that such litigation, claims, and administrative proceedings will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial position or results of operations. The Company records a liability when a loss is considered probable, and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
Other Commitments and Contingencies
In March 2019, the Company initiated an internal investigation process, under the guidelines of the Company’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, into its consolidated joint venture affiliate ADS Mexicana’s senior management’s ethical and business conduct, as well as compliance of certain products with, along with considerations into Mexican laws and regulations over the last 12 months. The Company has concluded that the current estimate of probable losses resulting from the investigation is not material to our consolidated financial statements, however due to the inherent uncertainties in determining the use, installation application and location of our ADS Mexicana products sold, along with the consideration of Mexican laws and regulations related to warranty and product liability obligations, the Company is unable to determine the maximum potential future losses that may occur, which could be material to the consolidated financial statements.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
16.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
Employee Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) - The Company established the Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc. ESOP (the “ESOP” or the “Plan”) effective April 1, 1993. The Plan was funded through a transfer of assets from our tax-qualified profit-sharing retirement plan, as well as a 30-year term loan from ADS. Within 30 days following the repayment of the ESOP loan, which will occur no later than March 2023, the ESOP committee can direct the shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock owned by the ESOP to be converted into shares of the Company’s common stock. The Plan operates as a tax-qualified leveraged ESOP and was designed to enable eligible employees to acquire stock ownership interest in ADS. Employees of ADS who have reached the age of 18 are generally eligible to participate in the Plan on March 31 after six months of service. Upon retirement, disability, death, or vested terminations, (i) a participant or designated beneficiary may elect to receive the amount in their account attributable to the 1993 transfer of assets from our tax-qualified profit sharing retirement plan in the form of cash or ADS stock with any fractional shares paid in cash; (ii) stock credited to the participants’ ESOP stock account resulting from the ESOP’s loan repayments are distributed in the form of ADS stock, and (iii) amounts credited to the participants’ ESOP cash account are distributed in the form of cash. Upon attainment of age 50 and seven years of participation in the Plan, a participant may elect to diversify specified percentages of the number of shares of ADS stock credited to the participant’s ESOP stock account in compliance with applicable law.
The Company is obligated to make contributions to the Plan, which, when aggregated with the Plan’s dividends on the Plan’s unallocated shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock, equal the amount necessary to enable the Plan to make its regularly scheduled payments of principal and interest due on its term loan to ADS. As the Plan makes annual payments of principal and interest, an appropriate percentage of preferred stock is allocated to ESOP participants’ accounts in accordance with plan terms that are compliant with applicable Internal Revenue Code and regulatory provisions.
The carrying value of redeemable convertible preferred stock held by the ESOP trust, but not yet earned by the ESOP participants or used for dividends, is reported as Deferred compensation - unearned ESOP shares within the Mezzanine equity section of our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Compensation expense and related dividends paid with ESOP shares for services rendered throughout the period are recognized based upon the annual fair value of the shares allocated. Deferred compensation - unearned ESOP shares is relieved at fair value, with any difference between the annual fair value and the carrying value of shares when allocated being added to Additional paid in capital. The fair value of the shares allocated was $22.70, $19.90, and $20.00 per share of redeemable convertible preferred stock at March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, resulting in an average annual fair value per share of $21.31, $19.95, and $18.40 per share for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company recognized compensation expense of $20.1 million, $15.3 million, and $11.7 million, respectively, related to allocation of ESOP shares to participants.
Required dividends on allocated shares are generally passed through and paid in cash to the participants and required dividends on unallocated shares are paid in cash to the Plan and generally used to service the Plan’s debt.
The ESOP committee directed the Plan trustee to retain dividends on unallocated ADS shares rather than to service the Plan’s debt. In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the Company recognized compensation expense and the trustee retained $0.0 million, $3.3 million and $3.2 million, respectively, for dividends on unallocated ADS shares. These dividends were allocated to participants based on the total shares in their account in relation to total shares allocated at March 31, 2020 and 2019.
Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock - The Trustee of the Company’s ESOP has the ability to put shares of the redeemable convertible preferred stock to the Company absent a market for the Company’s common stock, and as a result the redeemable convertible preferred stock is classified as Mezzanine equity in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. The put option requirements of the Internal Revenue Code apply in the event that the Company’s common stock is not a registration type class of security or its trading has been restricted. Therefore, the holders of Redeemable convertible preferred stock have a put right to require the
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Company to repurchase such shares in the event that the common stock is not listed for trading or otherwise quoted on the NYSE, AMEX, NASDAQ, or any other market more senior than the OTC Bulletin Board. As of March 31, 2020, the applicable redemption value was $0.7818 per share as there were no unpaid cumulative dividends.
Given that the event that may trigger redemption of the Redeemable convertible preferred stock (the listing or quotation on a market more senior than the OTC Bulletin Board) is not solely within the Company’s control, the redeemable convertible preferred stock is presented in the mezzanine equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of March 31, 2020, the Company did not adjust the carrying value of the redeemable convertible preferred stock to its redemption value or recognize any changes in fair value as the Company did not consider it probable that the Redeemable convertible preferred stock would become redeemable.
The Redeemable convertible preferred stock has a required cumulative 2.5% dividend (based on the liquidation value of $0.7818 per share) and is convertible at a rate of 0.7692 shares of common stock for each share of Redeemable convertible preferred stock. The 2.5% annual dividend is payable in cash or additional shares of the Redeemable convertible preferred stock. During the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Board of Directors approved the 2.5% annual dividend to be paid in cash on March 31, 2020 to stockholders of record as of March 15, 2020. The Redeemable convertible preferred stock has a liquidation value of $0.7818 per share that must be paid before any distribution or payment may be made to holders of common stock in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of ADS.
During fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, the Board of Directors approved a special cash dividend of $1.00 per share. See “Note 19. Net Income Per Share and Stockholders’ Equity” for additional information. Cash and stock dividends on allocated Redeemable convertible preferred stock for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, are summarized in the following table.
In the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, 1.0 million and 0.8 million shares of redeemable convertible preferred stock, respectively, were allocated to the ESOP participants, including, in addition to the cash dividends, 0.4 million and less than 0.1 million preferred shares allocated as dividends, respectively.
Executive Retirement Expense - ADS has employment agreements with certain executives that include potential payments to be made to those executives upon termination. The terms of the termination payments vary by executive, but are generally based on current base salary and bonus levels at the time of termination. The contractual termination payments vest upon either (1) certain contingent occurrences terminating employment such as death, disability, layoff, the executive voluntarily quitting due to a breach of covenants by the Company or for other “good reason” or (2) the executive reaching a specified retirement age while still working for the Company, as defined in the individual employee agreement.
The Company accrues a liability from the effective date of the executive’s employment agreement to the date the executive reaches the required retirement age while working for the Company, which is considered the service period for this obligation. The liability is estimated based on each executive’s current base salary and bonus levels. Because the executives vest in the termination payments equally over the relevant service period, the Company recognizes the related compensation expense based on the straight-line method over the service
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
period. If an executive terminates their employment prior to reaching the required retirement age, no payment is required and the previously recorded compensation expense for that executive is reversed and recorded as a benefit to compensation expense in the period the executive terminates employment.
The compensation (benefit) expense recorded related to the executive termination payments for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $0.2 million, $(0.2) million and $1.5 million, respectively, and is included in General and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. As of March 31, 2020 and 2019, the executive termination payment obligation was $2.6 million and $4.3 million, respectively, and is included in Other accrued liabilities and Other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Profit-Sharing Plan - The Company has a tax-qualified profit-sharing retirement plan with a 401(k) feature covering substantially all U.S. eligible employees. The Company did not make employer contributions to this plan in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. The Company has defined contribution postretirement benefit plans covering Infiltrator Water Technologies and Canadian employees. The Company recognized costs of $0.5 million, $0.4 million and $0.7 million in the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018.
COVID-19 Pandemic Pay - In fiscal 2020, the Company communicated to all hourly employees that each would be entitled to the equivalent of two weeks, or 80 hours, of pandemic pay regardless of whether they experienced any interruption of employment. The Company recognized pandemic pay costs in Costs of goods sold on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations and accrued pandemic pay liability in Other accrued liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet of $4.8 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020.
17.
STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
The Company has several programs for stock-based payments to employees and directors, including stock options and restricted stock. Stock-based compensation expense is recorded in General and administrative expenses, Selling expenses and Cost of goods sold in the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
The Company recognized stock-based compensation expense in the following line items on the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense by award type for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The following table summarizes the assumptions used in estimating the fair value of stock options:
2000 and 2013 Stock Options Plans
Equity classified stock option awards are measured based on the grant date estimated fair value of each award. Compensation expense for stock options is recognized on a straight-line basis over the employee’s requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period of the grant. The Company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
2000 Plan - The Company’s 2000 stock option plan (“2000 Plan”) provided for the issuance of statutory and non-statutory stock options to management based upon the discretion of the Board of Directors. The plan generally provided for grants with the exercise price equal to fair value on the date of grant, which vest in three equal annual amounts beginning in year five and expire after approximately 10 years from issuance. The Company had no shares available for grant under the 2000 Plan as of March 31, 2020.
The stock option activity for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 is summarized as follows:
All outstanding options are expected to vest.
The following table summarizes information about the unvested stock option grants as of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020:
As of March 31, 2020, there was a total of $0.1 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock option awards under the 2000 plan that will be recognized as an expense as the awards vest over the remaining weighted average service period of 1.3 years.
During the fiscal year end March 31, 2020, 0.1 million shares vested. No options vested during fiscal years ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. No options were granted during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. The aggregate intrinsic value for options outstanding and currently exercisable as of
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
March 31, 2020 was $1.0 million and $0.6 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $0.2 million, $0.8 million and $0.5 million, respectively.
2013 Plan - The Company’s 2013 stock option plan (“2013 Plan”) provided for the issuance of non-statutory common stock options to management subject to the Board’s discretion. The plan generally provided for grants with the exercise price equal to fair value on the date of grant. The grants generally vest in three to five equal annual amounts beginning in year one and expire after approximately 10 years from issuance. The Company had no shares available for grant under the 2013 Plan as of March 31, 2020.
The stock option activity for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 is summarized as follows:
All outstanding options are expected to vest.
The following table summarizes information about the unvested stock option grants as of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020:
As of March 31, 2020, there was a total of $0.1 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock option awards under the 2013 Plan that will be recognized as an expense as the awards vest over the remaining weighted average service period of 0.9 years.
The aggregate intrinsic value for options outstanding and currently exercisable as of March 31, 2020 was $5.6 million and $5.5 million, respectively. The total fair value of options that vested during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $0.8 million, $2.6 million, and $4.7 million, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 was $13.2 million.
2008 Restricted Stock Plan
On September 16, 2008, the Board of Directors adopted the restricted stock plan, which provided for the issuance of restricted stock awards to certain key employees. The restricted stock generally vest ratably over a five-year period from the original restricted stock grant date, contingent on the employee’s continuous employment by ADS. Under the restricted stock plan, vested shares are considered issued and outstanding.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Employees with restricted stock have the right to dividends on the shares awarded (vested and unvested) in addition to voting rights on non-forfeited shares.
The fair value of restricted stock is based on the fair value of the Company’s common stock. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the employee’s requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period of the grant.
The Company had no shares available for grant under this plan as of March 31, 2020.
The information about the unvested restricted stock grants as of March 31, 2020 is as follows:
The Company expects all restricted stock grants to vest.
At March 31, 2020, there was approximately $0.1 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the restricted stock that will be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of 1.0 years. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the total fair value of restricted stock that vested was $0.9 million, $1.4 million and $2.9 million, respectively.
2017 Omnibus Plan
On May 24, 2017, the Board of Directors approved the 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the “2017 Incentive Plan”) which was approved by the Company’s stockholders on July 17, 2017. The 2017 Incentive Plan provides for the issuance of a maximum of 3.5 million shares of the Company’s common stock for awards made thereunder, which awards may consist of stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, phantom stock, cash-based awards, performance awards (which may take the form of performance cash, performance units or performance shares) or other stock-based awards. The Company had approximately 1.8 million shares available for awards as of March 31, 2020. The 2017 Incentive Plan replaces the 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan, 2008 Restricted Stock Plan, 2013 Stock Option Plan, and 2014 Non-Employee Director Compensation Plan (the “Prior Plans”) and no further grants will be made under the prior plans.
The stock option activity for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 is summarized as follows:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
All outstanding options are expected to vest.
The following table summarizes information about the unvested stock option grants as of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020:
As of March 31, 2020, there was a total of $2.9 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested stock option awards under the 2017 Incentive Plan that will be recognized as an expense as the awards vest over the remaining weighted average service period of 1.8 years.
The aggregate intrinsic value for options outstanding and exercisable as of March 31, 2020 was $3.5 million and $1.6 million, respectively. There were 0.1 million options that were exercised during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020.
The information about the unvested restricted stock grants as of March 31, 2020 is as follows:
At March 31, 2020, there was approximately $8.2 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the restricted stock that will be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of 2.1 years. The total fair value of restricted stock that vested during fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 was $2.3 million and $2.0 million, respectively. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, no restricted stock vested.
The information about the performance units granted under the 2017 Omnibus Plan is as follows:
At March 31, 2020, there was approximately $9.6 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the performance units that will be recognized over the weighted average remaining service period of 1.9 years. For the performance units, 50% of the award is based upon the achievement of certain levels of Return on Invested Capital for the performance period and 50% is based upon the achievement of certain levels of Free cash flow for the performance period. During fiscal year 2020, the Company modified the achievement levels
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
of the awards due to the Acquisition of Infiltrator Water Technologies. The modification did not result in any incremental compensation expense. The performance units have a 3-year performance period from April 1, 2019 through March 31, 2022. The performance units, and any accrued dividend equivalents, will be settled in shares of the Company’s common stock, if the applicable performance and service conditions are satisfied.
In addition to the performance units based on ADS performance, the Company issued performance units based on the achievements of other performance targets. During fiscal year 2020, the Company granted 0.1 million units with a grant date fair value of $2.9 million, subject to achieving predetermined synergies of the now consolidated legacy ADS business and Infiltrator Water Technologies. The Company further granted 0.1 million units with a grant date fair value of $2.7 million, subject to performance conditions of the Infiltrator Water Technologies reportable segment. For the performance units based on the Infiltrator Water Technologies reportable segment, 75% of the award is based upon the achievement of certain levels of Infiltrator Water Technologies Adjusted EBITDA for the performance period and 25% is based upon the achievement of certain levels of Infiltrator Water Technologies Free cash flow for the performance period. These two performance unit grants have a 3-year performance period from August 1, 2019 through March 31, 2022.
During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, the weighted average grant date fair value of performance units granted was $33.27 and $25.84, respectively. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, the total fair value of performance units that vested was $0.0 million and $0.1 million. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, no performance units vested. 18. INCOME TAXES
The components of Income before income taxes for the fiscal years ended March 31 are as follows:
The components of Income tax expense for the fiscal years ended March 31 consisted of the following:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
For the fiscal years ended March 31, the effective tax rate varied from the statutory Federal income tax rate as a result of the following factors:
(a)
This includes the special dividend paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 that resulted in $246.8 million in additional stock-based compensation. Of the total stock-based compensation expense and dividends paid, approximately $242.9 million related to non-deductible stock appreciation and deductible dividends. This decreased the effective tax rate by 28.4%. See “Note 19. Net Income Per Share and Stockholders’ Equity” for additional information.
As discussed in “Note 4. Acquisitions”, the Company acquired Infiltrator Water Technologies on July 31, 2019. During the year ended March 31, 2020, as part of the purchase price, approximately $132.4 million was attributed to deferred tax liabilities. Of the $132.4 million, $82.3 million related to the step up of GAAP basis for fair market valuations, while the remaining $50.1 million were acquired deferred tax liabilities. Of the total $82.3 million, $80.2 million was attributed to intangibles. The Company also acquired a federal net operating loss of $24.0 million.
On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act ("CARES Act") was signed into law. The CARES Act provides that net operating losses arising in a tax year beginning in 2018, 2019, or 2020 can be carried back five years. As a result, the Company has recognized an income tax benefit of $3.4 million related to the federal net operating loss from the acquisition of Infiltrator Water Technologies. The Company continues to evaluate the new law, and we do not expect either the U.S. or non-U.S. corporate income tax provisions of the CARES Act to have a material impact on our income tax (benefit) provision.
As of March 31, 2020, the Company has approximately $26.5 million of undistributed earnings that are intended to be reinvested indefinitely with the exception of cash dividends paid by our ADS Mexicana joint venture and the distribution paid by our Canadian subsidiary during the fiscal year. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of U.S. tax, which would primarily relate to withholding tax, that might be payable on the eventual remittance of such undistributed earnings.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at March 31 were comprised of:
Net deferred tax assets and liabilities are included in Other assets and Deferred tax liabilities, respectively, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The related balances at March 31 were as follows:
As a result of the acquisition of Infiltrator Water Technologies, the Company acquired state net operating losses (“NOLs”) and state credit carryforward attributes. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to state NOLs of $0.9 million as of March 31, 2020, with carryforward periods ranging from 5 to 20 years. Any losses not utilized within a specific state’s carryforward period will expire. A valuation allowance has been recorded against $0.1 million of these deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2020 for state NOLs that the Company does not expect to realize within their respective carryforward periods. Tax benefits associated with state tax credits will also expire if not utilized and amounted to $0.8 million at March 31, 2020. A valuation allowance in the amount of $0.5 million has been established related to state credits the Company does not expect to utilize.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Deferred tax assets related to foreign NOLs were $0.3 million as of March 31, 2020 with carryforward periods ranging from 20 years to indefinite carryforward periods. Any losses not utilized within a specific carryforward period will expire. A valuation allowance has been recorded against $0.1 million of these deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2020 for foreign NOLs that the Company does not expect to realize within their respective carryforward periods.
Accounting for Uncertain Tax Positions
As of March 31, 2020, The Company had unrecognized tax benefit of $3.3 million, which if resolved favorably, would reduce income tax expense by $3.3 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 is as follows:
The short-term portion of the unrecognized tax benefit of $1.5 million at March 31, 2020 is recorded in Other Accrued liabilities on the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheet. The long-term portion of unrecognized tax benefits are recorded in Other liabilities in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. These amounts include potential accrued interest and penalties of $0.8 million and $1.5 million at March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The Company believes that over the next twelve months, it is reasonably possible that up to $1.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits could be resolved as the result of settlements of audits and the expiration of statutes of limitation. Final settlement of these issues may result in payments that are more or less than this amount, but the Company does not anticipate that the resolution of these matters will result in a material change to its consolidated financial position or results of operations.
The Company is currently open to audit under the statute of limitations by the IRS for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2017 through March 31, 2020. The majority of the Company’s state income tax returns are open to audit under the statute of limitations for the years ended March 31, 2016 through March 31, 2020. The foreign income tax returns are open to audit under the statute of limitations for the years ended March 31, 2016 through March 31, 2020.
19.
NET INCOME PER SHARE AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
Basic net income per share is calculated by dividing the Net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period, without consideration for common stock equivalents. Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing the Net income available to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of common stock equivalents outstanding for the period.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Holders of certain unvested restricted stock have non-forfeitable rights to dividends when declared on common stock, and holders of redeemable convertible preferred stock participate in dividends on an as-converted basis when declared on common stock. As a result, unvested restricted stock and redeemable convertible preferred stock meet the definition of participating securities, which requires us to apply the two-class method to compute both basic and diluted net income per share. The two-class method is an earnings allocation formula that treats participating securities as having rights to earnings that would otherwise have been available to common stockholders.
The dilutive effect of stock options and unvested restricted stock is based on the more dilutive of the treasury stock method or the diluted two-class method. In computing diluted net income per share, income available to common stockholders used in the basic net income per share calculation (numerator) is adjusted, subject to sequencing rules, for certain adjustments that would result from the assumed issuance of potential common shares. After the effective date of the IPO, management’s intent is to share settle; therefore, these shares are included in the calculation from July 26, 2014 through March 31, 2020, if dilutive. For purposes of the calculation of diluted net income per share, stock options and unvested restricted stock are considered to be potential common stock and are only included in the calculations when their effect is dilutive.
The Company’s redeemable common stock is included in the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for calculating basic and diluted net income per share.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The following table presents information necessary to calculate net income per share for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, as well as potentially dilutive securities excluded from the weighted average number of diluted common shares outstanding because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive:
Common Stock Offering - On September 10, 2019, the Company issued and sold an aggregate of 10,350,000 shares of common stock, $0.01 par value per share, which included the full exercise of the underwriters’ option to purchase additional shares, at a price of $29.75 per share, before underwriting discounts and commissions. The common stock was sold pursuant to the Company’s shelf registration statement and related prospectus supplement. The Company received proceeds of $293.6 million from the issuance after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. The Company used the net proceeds for the repayment of a portion of the outstanding borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facility.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Stockholders’ Equity - The Company did not repurchase any shares of common stock during fiscal years 2020 and 2019. In February 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $50 million of ADS common stock in accordance with applicable securities laws. As of March 31, 2020, approximately $42.1 million of common stock may be repurchased under the authorization. The repurchase program does not obligate the Company to acquire any particular amount of common stock and may be suspended or terminated at any time at the Company’s discretion.
Special Dividend and the Employees Stock Ownership Plan (“ESOP”) - During fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, the Board of Directors approved a special cash dividend of $1.00 per share and quarterly dividends of $0.09 per share. The special and quarterly dividend were paid to all stockholders on June 14, 2019 to stockholders of record at the close of business on June 3, 2019. The total dividend payment was $81.6 million. The dividends received by the unallocated redeemable convertible preferred stock held in the ESOP trust was used to pay $12.0 million of the ESOP loan back to the Company resulting in approximately 11.6 million shares of the Company’s redeemable convertible preferred stock being allocated to ESOP participants. The Company recognized $246.8 million in stock-based compensation expense based on the fair value on the date the Board of Directors approved the special dividend. The Board of Director’s approval committed the ESOP to use those proceeds to pay down the ESOP loan. The special dividend compensation expense was recognized in Cost of goods sold - ESOP special dividend compensation and Selling, general and administrative expenses - ESOP special dividend compensation on the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Operations. The Company’s ESOP is further described in “Note 16. Employee Benefit Plans”.
20.
OTHER ACCRUED LIABILITIES
Other accrued liabilities as of fiscal years ended March 31 consisted of the following:
(1)
Accrued compensation and benefits is primarily comprised of accrued payroll, bonuses and commissions.
(2)
Accrued rebate liability represents the Company’s estimated rebates to be paid to customers.
21.
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
Following the Acquisition of Infiltrator Water Technologies, the Company revised its reportable segments to reflect how the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) currently reviews financial information and makes operational decisions. After the Acquisition, ADS operates its business in three distinct reportable segments: “Pipe”, “International” and “Infiltrator Water Technologies.” “Allied Products & Other” represents the Company’s Allied Products and all other business segments. “Pipe” and “Allied Products & Other” were previously included as Domestic. With the change in reportable segments, the CODM is now evaluating segment reporting based on Net Sales and Segment Adjusted Gross Profit. The Company calculated Segment Adjusted Gross Profit as net sales less costs of goods sold, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, non-cash charges and certain other expenses. A measure of assets is not applicable, as segment assets are not regularly reviewed by the CODM for evaluating performance or allocating resources. The prior period segment results and related disclosures have been recast to conform to the current year presentation.
Pipe - The Pipe segment manufactures and markets high performance thermoplastic corrugated pipe throughout the United States. The Company maintains and serves these markets through product distribution relationships with many of the largest national and independent waterworks distributors, buying groups and co-ops, major national retailers as well as an extensive network of hundreds of small to medium-sized distributors across the U.S.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Products include single wall pipe, N-12 HDPE pipe sold into the Storm sewer, Infrastructure and Agriculture markets, High Performance polypropylene pipe sold into the Storm sewer, Infrastructure and sanitary sewer markets. Products are designed primarily for storm water management in the construction and infrastructure marketplace across a broad range of end markets and applications, including non-residential, residential, agriculture and infrastructure. Products are manufactured using HDPE and polypropylene plastic material.
Infiltrator Water Technologies - Infiltrator Water Technologies is a leading national provider of plastic leach field chambers and systems, septic tanks and accessories, primarily for use in residential applications. Infiltrator Water Technologies products are used in on-site septic wastewater treatment systems in the United States and Canada.
International - The International segment manufactures and markets pipe and allied products in certain regions outside of the United States, including Company owned facilities in Canada, subsidiaries that distribute to Europe and the Middle East, exports and through the Company’s joint ventures with local partners in Mexico and South America. The Company’s Mexican joint venture, ADS Mexicana, primarily serves the Mexican and Central American markets, while its South American Joint Venture, Tigre-ADS, is the primary channel to serve the South American markets. The Company’s International product lines include single wall pipe, N-12 HDPE pipe, high performance PP pipe and certain geographies also sell our broad line of Allied Products & Other.
Allied Products & Other - Allied Products & Other manufactures and markets products throughout the United States. Products include StormTech, Nyloplast, ARC Septic Chambers, Inserta Tee, BaySaver filters and water quality structures, Fittings, and FleXstorm. The Company maintains and serves these markets through product distribution relationships with many of the largest national and independent waterworks distributors, major national retailers as well as an extensive network of hundreds of small to medium-sized distributors across the U.S. The Company also sells through a broad variety of buying groups and co-ops in the United States.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The following table sets forth reportable segment information with respect to the amount of Net sales contributed by each class of similar products for the fiscal years ended March 31:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
The following sets forth certain financial information attributable to the reportable segments for the fiscal years ended March 31:
(a)
Includes depreciation and amortization and capital expenditures not allocated to a reportable segment. The amortization expense of Infiltrator Water Technologies intangible assets acquired is included in Allied Products & Other.
Reconciliation of Gross Profit to Segment Adjusted Gross profit
(a)
Represents the Company’s pandemic pay expense included in Gross profit in connection with the Company’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, see “Note 16. Employee Benefit Plans” for additional information.
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
Geographic Sales and Assets Information
Net sales are attributed to the geographic location based on the location of the customer. The table below represents the Net sales and long-lived asset information by geographic location for each of the fiscal years ended March 31:
(a)
For segment reporting purposes, long-lived assets include Investments in unconsolidated affiliates, Central parts and Property, plant and equipment.
22.
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information for the fiscal years ended March 31 were as follows:
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
23.
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
The following tables set forth certain historical unaudited consolidated condensed quarterly financial information for each of the quarters during the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. In the Company’s opinion, the unaudited quarterly financial information reflects all normal and recurring accruals and adjustments necessary for a fair presentation of net income for interim periods.
(1) The earnings per share calculations for each quarter are based upon the applicable weighted average shares outstanding for each period and may not necessarily be equal to the full year share amount.
24.
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
Dividends on Common Stock - During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share of common stock. The dividend is payable on June 15, 2020 to stockholders of record at the close of business on June 1, 2020.
* * * * * *
Advanced Drainage Systems, Inc.
SCHEDULE II
ADVANCED DRAINAGE SYSTEMS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the Fiscal Years Ended March 31, 2020,
2019 and 2018 (in thousands):
Allowance for Doubtful Accounts:
(1)
Amount for the year ended March 31, 2020 includes $0.4 million due to the Acquisition.
(2)
Amounts represent the impact of foreign currency translation.
(3)
Amounts includes the release of a $3.0 million allowance related to the South American Joint Venture capital contribution. See “Note 11. Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliates” for additional information.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 2b80b761c394efec63d9ece490d47375
- Approx. Length: 32447 characters