# Context

Item 1A - “Risk Factors.”
Regulation of the Cannabis Market at State and Local Level
Following the thesis that distributing brands at scale will win, we enter markets where we believe that we can profitably and sustainably operate and command significant market share, and thus maximize consumer and brand awareness. The regulatory frameworks installed by the states, which are similar to the limited and controlled issuance of gaming or alcohol distributorship licenses, provide macro-level indication of whether certain state markets will be sustainable and profitable.
Below is a summary overview of the regulatory and competitive frameworks in each of our operating markets. See Appendix A to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a state-by-state list of the licenses and permits held by us.
California
In 1996, California was the first state to legalize medical marijuana through Proposition 215, the Compassionate Use Act of 1996. This legalized the use, possession and cultivation of medical marijuana by patients with a physician recommendation for treatment of cancer, anorexia, AIDS, chronic pain, spasticity, glaucoma, arthritis, migraine or any other illness for which marijuana provides relief. In 2003, Senate Bill 420 was signed into law establishing an optional identification card system for medical marijuana patients.
In September 2015, the California legislature passed three bills collectively known as the Medical Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (“MCRSA”). The MCRSA established a licensing and regulatory framework for medical marijuana businesses in California. In November 2016, voters in California overwhelmingly passed Proposition 64, the Adult Use of Marijuana Act (“AUMA”) creating an adult use marijuana program for adults 21 years of age or older. Some provisions of AUMA conflicted with MCRSA, so the California State Legislature passed Senate Bill No. 94, known as Medicinal and Adult Use Cannabis Regulation and Safety Act (“MAUCRSA”) in June 2017, amalgamating MCRSA and AUMA to provide a single set of regulations to govern a medical and adult use licensing regime for cannabis businesses in the State of California. MAUCRSA went into effect on January 1, 2018.
The three agencies that regulate cannabis at the state level are: (a) the California Department of Food and Agriculture, via CalCannabis, which issues licenses to cannabis cultivators; (b) the California Department of Public Health, via the Manufactured Cannabis Safety Branch, which issues licenses to cannabis manufacturers; and (c) the California Department of Consumer Affairs, via the Bureau of Cannabis Control, which issues licenses to cannabis distributors, testing laboratories, retailers and micro-businesses.
On June 6, 2018, a proposal by the California Department of Consumer Affairs, the California Department of Public Health and the California Department of Food and Agriculture to re-adopt their emergency cannabis regulations went into effect. Among the changes, applicants may now complete one license application, allowing for both medical and adult use cannabis activity. On January 16, 2019, California’s three state cannabis licensing authorities announced that the Office of Administrative Law officially approved state regulations for cannabis businesses. The final cannabis regulations took effect immediately and superseded the previous emergency regulations.
In order to legally operate a medical or adult use cannabis business in California, the operator must have both a local and state license. This requires license holders to operate in cities with cannabis licensing programs. Municipalities in California are allowed to determine the number of licenses they will issue to cannabis operators or can choose to ban cannabis businesses outright.
California License and Regulations
There are three principal license categories in California: (1) cultivation, (2) processing and (3) retailer. License holders are held to strict license renewal requirements.
Cultivation licenses permit commercial cannabis cultivation activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting, drying, curing, grading or trimming of cannabis. Such licenses further permit the production, labeling and packaging of a limited number of non-manufactured cannabis products and permit the licensee to sell cannabis to certain licensed entities (both medical and adult use licensees) within the State of California for resale or manufacturing purposes.
Processing licenses authorize manufacturers to process marijuana biomass into certain value-added products with the use of volatile or non-volatile solvents, depending on the license type.
Retailer licenses permit the sale of cannabis and cannabis products to both medical patients and adult use customers. Only certified physicians may provide medicinal marijuana recommendations. An adult use retailer license permits the sale of cannabis and cannabis products to any adult 21 years of age or older. It does not require the individual to possess a physician’s recommendation. Under the terms of such licenses, the holder is permitted to sell adult use cannabis and cannabis products to any person, provided the local jurisdiction permits the sale of adult use cannabis and the person presents a valid government-issued photo identification demonstrating that they are 21 years of age or older.
In February 2021, we received our first provisional operational license in the State of California. We have also been granted conditional licenses, permitting us to retail medical and adult use cannabis and cannabis related products. We have been awarded approval to proceed with the next steps in the application process for the entities listed on Appendix A to Annual Report on Form 10-K.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in California.
California Reporting Requirements
The California Cannabis Track-and-Trace (“CCTT”) system is the Track-and-Trace (“T&T”) system used statewide to record the inventory and movement of cannabis and cannabis products through the commercial cannabis supply chain from seed to sale. The CCTT system must be used by all annual and provisional cannabis licensees, including those with licenses for cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, retail, distribution, testing labs and microbusinesses. The state’s contracted service provider for the CCTT system is Marijuana Enforcement Tracking Regulation and Compliance (“METRC”). Licensees are required to maintain records for at least seven years from the date a record is created.
Colorado
On November 7, 2000, Colorado voters approved Amendment 20, which amended the state constitution to allow the use of marijuana in the state by approved patients with written medical consent. Conditions recognized for medical marijuana in Colorado include: cancer, chronic pain, epilepsy, HIV/AIDS, multiple sclerosis and nausea.
Amendment 64 passed on November 6, 2012, which amended the state constitution to establish a cannabis program in Colorado and permit the commercial cultivation, manufacture and sale of marijuana to adults 21 years of age or older. The commercial sale of marijuana for adult use to the general public began on January 1, 2014 at cannabis businesses licensed under the regulatory framework.
In Colorado, cannabis businesses must comply with local licensing requirements in addition to state licensing requirements in order to operate. Colorado localities are allowed to limit or prohibit the operation of marijuana cultivation facilities, product manufacturing facilities or retail dispensary facilities.
Colorado License and Regulations
There are three principal license categories in Colorado: (1) cultivation, (2) product manufacturer and (3) medical center/retail store. Each facility is authorized to engage only in the type of activity for which it is licensed. A licensee must apply for renewal before the expiration date of a license.
We do not have any licenses in the State of Colorado. We have entered into licensing and distribution contracts with third parties that hold licenses to engage in the sale of cannabis in Colorado for incredibles and Beboe branded cannabis products. Such third parties directly engage in or arrange for the sourcing, manufacturing, laboratory testing, quality assurance, storage, marketing, sales, distribution and delivery of products containing cannabis and remit licensing fees to us. See Item 1 - “Intellectual Property-Patents and Trademarks” for details on licenses with respect to operations in Colorado.
Regulations for the production and sale of marijuana in Colorado are published through the Marijuana Enforcement Division of the Department of Revenue.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in Colorado.
Colorado Reporting Requirements
Colorado uses METRC as the MED’s marijuana inventory tracking system for all medical and adult use licensees. Marijuana is required to be tracked and reported with specific data points from seed to sale through METRC for compliance purposes under Colorado marijuana laws and regulations.
Connecticut
The State of Connecticut has authorized cultivation, possession and distribution of marijuana for medical purposes by certain licensed Connecticut marijuana businesses. Over thirty medical conditions currently are recognized by the state to qualify a patient for medical marijuana certificate, including cancer, glaucoma, epilepsy and certain terminal and chronic pain conditions. The Medical Marijuana Program in Connecticut registers qualifying patients, primary caregivers, Dispensary Facilities and Dispensary Facility Employees. The Medical Marijuana Program in Connecticut was established by Connecticut General Statutes §§ 21a-408-21a-429. Dispensary Facilities and production facilities are separately licensed.
Connecticut’s medical cannabis program was introduced in May 2012 when the General Assembly passed legislation PA 12-55 “An Act Concerning the Palliative Use of Marijuana.”
The program launched with six dispensary licensees and four producer licensees. The first dispensaries sold to patients in September 2014. Subsequently, additional licensed dispensaries have become operational.
In January 2016, the Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection, the agency that oversees and administers the program, approved three additional dispensary licenses. In December 2018, the Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection issued nine additional dispensary licenses, bringing the total to 18 licensed dispensaries in the state. As of February 2021, all 18 of these dispensaries were operational.
Connecticut Licenses and Regulations
There are two principal license categories in Connecticut: (1) cultivation/processing and (2) dispensary. We are licensed to operate one medical marijuana cultivation/processing facility and three medical marijuana dispensaries. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of Connecticut. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in Connecticut.
The Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection has issued regulations regarding the Medical Marijuana Program in Connecticut. Patients with certain debilitating medical conditions qualify to participate in the Medical
Marijuana Program in Connecticut. A physician or advanced practice registered nurse must issue a written certification for a Medical Marijuana Program in Connecticut patient, and the qualifying patient or caregiver must choose one designated Dispensary Facilities where the patient’s marijuana will be obtained. Under the Medical Marijuana Program in Connecticut, dispensary licenses are renewed annually. Renewal applications must be submitted 45 days prior to license expiration and any renewal submitted more than 30 days after expiration will not be renewed.
Medical marijuana cultivation/processing licenses permit us to operate a secure, indoor facility to cultivate and process medical marijuana and wholesale to dispensaries.
Medical marijuana dispensary facility licenses qualify a dispensary to purchase medical cannabis from licensed medical cannabis producers and to dispense cannabis to qualifying patients or primary caregivers that are registered under the Medical Marijuana Program in Connecticut. Dispensaries must have a pharmacist on staff.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in Connecticut.
Connecticut Reporting Requirements
Connecticut does not mandate the use of a particular unified T&T system by which all dispensary license holders submit data directly to the state. However, the Medical Marijuana Program in Connecticut does provide strict guidelines for reporting via the license holder’s T&T program. Every cannabis sale must be documented at the point of sale, including recording the date. At least once per day, all sales must be uploaded via the T&T system to the Connecticut Prescription Monitoring Program which accumulates and tracks medical cannabis purchases across all Connecticut dispensaries.
Florida
In 2014, the Florida Legislature passed the Compassionate Use Act, which was the first legal medical cannabis program in the state’s history. The original Compassionate Use Act only allowed for low-THC cannabis to be dispensed and purchased by patients suffering from cancer and epilepsy. In 2016, the Legislature passed the Right To Try Act which allowed for full potency cannabis to be dispensed to patients suffering from a diagnosed terminal condition. Also in 2016, the Florida Medical Marijuana Legalization Initiative was introduced by citizen referendum and passed on November 8. This language, known as “Amendment 2,” amended the state constitution and mandated an expansion of the state’s medical cannabis program.
Amendment 2, and the resulting expansion of qualifying medical conditions, became effective on January 3, 2017. The Florida Department of Health, physicians, dispensing organizations and patients are bound by Article X Section 29 of the Florida Constitution and Florida Statutes Section 381.986. On June 9, 2017, the Florida House of Representatives and Florida Senate passed respective legislation to implement the expanded program by replacing large portions of the existing Compassionate Use Act, which officially became law on June 23, 2017.
The State of Florida Statutes Section 381.986(8)(a) provides a regulatory framework that requires licensed producers, which are statutorily defined as “Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers” (which we refer to as MMTC), to cultivate, process and dispense medical cannabis in a vertically-integrated marketplace.
Florida Licenses and Regulations
There is one principal license category in Florida: vertically-integrated Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers license. We are licensed to operate one medical cannabis cultivation/processing facility and up to 35 medical dispensaries. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of Florida. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in Florida.
There is a pending lawsuit that challenges important aspects of the 2017 legislation and Florida Department of Health, Office of Medical Marijuana Use, or OMMU, regulations that could have an impact on our business in Florida. In December 2017, Florigrown, LLC and other plaintiffs challenged as unconstitutional aspects of the 2017 legislation and OMMU regulations that: (1) require MMTCs to be vertically integrated (i.e., cultivate and process the cannabis to be sold at the MMTC’s own licensed dispensaries); (2) that cap the total number of MMTC licenses in the state; and (3) that authorized the OMMU to issue MMTC licenses to certain applicants that met criteria defined by the 2017 legislation. On October 18, 2019, a trial judge in the Circuit Court for Leon County ruled that Florigrown, LLC had a substantial likelihood of succeeding on its claims, holding that the vertical integration and licensing cap conflicted with the language in Article X, Section 29 and that the provisions in the 2017 defining the criteria for eligibility for MMTC licensure constituted an impermissible “special law” under Article III, Section 11(a)(12) of the Florida Constitution. On July 10, 2019, an intermediate appellate court affirmed aspects of the Circuit Court for Leon County’s ruling. The matter is now pending before Florida Supreme Court. The Florida Supreme Court heard additional oral argument in the case on October 7, 2020.
Licenses are issued by the OMMU and must be renewed biennially. License holders can only own one license. Currently, the dispensaries can be in any geographic location within the state, provided that the local municipality’s zoning regulations authorize such a use, the proposed site is zoned for a pharmacy and the site is not within 500 feet of a church or school.
The Medical Marijuana Treatment Centers license permits us to sell medical cannabis to qualified patients to treat certain medical conditions in Florida, which are delineated in Florida Statutes Section 386.981. As our operations in Florida are vertically-integrated, we are able to cultivate, harvest, process and sell/dispense/deliver its own medical cannabis products. Under the terms of our Florida license, we are permitted to sell medical cannabis only to qualified medical patients that are registered with the State. Only certified physicians who have successfully completed a medical cannabis educational program can register patients on the Florida Office of Compassionate Use Registry.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in Florida.
Florida Reporting Requirements
The Florida Department of Health requires that any licensee establish, maintain and control a computer software tracking system that traces cannabis from seed to sale and allows real-time, 24-hour access by the Florida Department of Health to this data. The tracking system must allow for integration of other seed-to-sale systems and, at minimum, include notification of when marijuana seeds are planted, when marijuana plants are harvested and destroyed and when cannabis is transported, sold, stolen, diverted or lost. Additionally, the Florida Department of Health maintains a patient and physician registry, and we must comply with all requirements and regulations related to providing required data or proof of key events to the tracking system.
Illinois
In June 2019, the governor of Illinois signed legislation legalizing cannabis for adult use. The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, legalizing and regulating cannabis for recreational use, went into effect on June 25, 2019, and adult use sales of cannabis began in the state on January 1, 2020. The adult use program allowed existing medical cannabis license holders to apply for Early Approval Adult Use Dispensing Organization (“EAAUDO”) licenses to be able to sell adult use product at existing medical cannabis dispensaries (known as “co-located” or “same site” dispensaries) on January 1, 2020, and to have the privilege of opening a secondary adult use only retail site for every medical cannabis dispensary location the Dispensing Organization already had in its portfolio. All EAAUDO license holders were also required to commit to the state’s groundbreaking Social Equity program either through a financial contribution, grant agreement, donation, incubation program, or sponsorship program. The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act also authorized issuance of an additional 75 Adult
Use Dispensing Organization (“AUDO”) licenses in 2020 but to date those licenses have yet to be issued and it is uncertain when they will be issued. In addition, the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act also authorized issuance up to 110 additional AUDO licenses by December 21, 2021.
We are licensed to grow and process cannabis for medical and adult use sales at our two cultivation facilities. As of December 31, 2020, we have nine operating dispensaries in Illinois and plan to open one more adult use only dispensary, which would bring us to the Illinois statutory cap of ten dispensaries. All of our original five medical dispensaries received licenses for co-located adult use sales, four of which are now fully operational. We have applied for and received four of the five “secondary” adult use dispensary state licenses we are eligible to receive, all four of which are fully operational. We expect to operationalize our fifth “secondary” license in the first quarter of 2021. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of Illinois. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in Illinois.
Illinois Licenses and Regulations
Illinois licenses four types of cannabis businesses within the state: (1) cultivation; (2) processing; (3) transportation; and (4) dispensary. We are licensed to grow and process cannabis for medical and adult use sales at our two cultivation facilities. Dispensaries require separate licenses for adult use sales and medical sales. As of December 31, 2020, we have nine operating dispensaries in Illinois (operating under 14 licenses) and plan to open one additional adult use only dispensary, which would bring us to the Illinois statutory cap of ten dispensaries operating under 15 licenses. We have five existing medical dispensary retail locations in Illinois. As part of each of our original five medical Illinois dispensary licenses, each medical dispensary was permitted to apply for (a) a license to sell to adult use customers in the same location, and (b) a license for a secondary location for sales to adult use customers only. All of our original five medical dispensaries received licenses for co-located adult use sales, four of which are now fully operational, and one of which remains subject to local zoning approval. We have applied for and received four of the five “secondary” adult use dispensary state licenses we are eligible to receive, all four of which are fully operational. We have applied for and received conditional approval for the fifth “secondary” license, with final approval expected later this spring. The dispensaries with “secondary” licenses by law serve only adult use customers, not medical patients. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of Illinois. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in Illinois.
All cultivation/processing establishments must register with Illinois Department of Agriculture. All dispensaries must register with the Illinois Department of Financial and Professional Regulation. If applications contain all required information, establishments are issued a marijuana establishment registration certificate. Registration certificates are valid for a period of one year and are subject to annual renewals after required fees are paid and the business remains in good standing. Pursuant to Illinois law, registration renewal applications must be received 45 days prior to expiration and may be denied if the license has a history of non-compliance and penalties.
The cultivation/processing licenses permit us to acquire, possess, cultivate, manufacture/process into edible marijuana products and/or marijuana-infused products, deliver, transfer, have tested, transport, supply or sell marijuana and related supplies to marijuana dispensaries.
The retail dispensary licenses permit us to purchase marijuana and marijuana products from cultivation/processing facilities, as well as allow the sale of marijuana and marijuana products.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued us with respect to our operations in Illinois.
Illinois Reporting Requirements
The state of Illinois uses BioTrack as the state’s computerized track-and-trace system for seed-to-sale reporting. Individual licensees, whether directly or through third-party integration systems, are required to push data to the state to meet all reporting requirements. We use an in-house computerized seed-to-sale software, which integrates with the state’s BioTrack program and captures the necessary data points as required in the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act.
Maryland
In 2012, a state law was enacted in Maryland to establish a state-regulated medical marijuana program. Legislation was signed in May 2013 and the program became operational on December 1, 2017. The Maryland Medical Cannabis Commission regulates the state program and awarded operational licenses in a highly competitive application process. 102 dispensary licenses were awarded out of a pool of over 800 applicants, while an original 15 cultivation licenses were awarded out of a pool of over 150 applicants. In April 2018, Maryland lawmakers agreed to expand the state’s medical marijuana industry by authorizing an additional 20 licenses, seven for cultivation and 13 for processing. The state program was written to allow access to medical marijuana for patients with any condition that is considered “severe” for which other medical treatments have proven ineffective, including: chronic pain, nausea, seizures, glaucoma and PTSD.
Maryland Licenses and Regulations
There are three principal license categories in Maryland: (1) cultivation, (2) processing and (3) dispensary. The Company has control and/or ownership over one cultivation license, one processing license and three retail dispensaries. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of Maryland. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at the Company facilities in Maryland.
All cultivation, processing and dispensary establishments must register with the Maryland Medical Cannabis Commission under the provisions of the Maryland Medical Cannabis Law, Section 13-3301 et seq. If applications contain all required information, establishments are issued a medical marijuana establishment registration certificate. Registration certificates are valid for a period of six years and thereafter subject to renewal every two years, and are subject to strict renewal requirements.
The medical cultivation licenses permit us to acquire, possess, cultivate, deliver, transfer, have tested, transport, supply or sell marijuana and related supplies to medical marijuana dispensaries, facilities for the production of medical marijuana products and/or medical marijuana-infused products or other medical marijuana cultivation facilities.
The medical processing license permits us to acquire, possess, manufacture, deliver, transfer, transport, supply, or sell marijuana products or marijuana infused products to other medical marijuana production facilities or medical marijuana dispensaries.
The retail dispensary licenses permit us to purchase marijuana from cultivation facilities, marijuana and marijuana products from product manufacturing facilities and marijuana from other medical marijuana dispensaries, as well as allow the sale of marijuana and marijuana products.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in Maryland.
Maryland Reporting Requirements
The state of Maryland uses METRC as the state’s computerized T&T system for seed-to-sale reporting. Individual licensees, whether directly or through third-party integration systems, are required to push data to the state to meet all reporting requirements. We use an in-house computerized seed-to-sale software, which integrates with the state’s METRC program and captures the required data points for retail as required in the Maryland Medical Cannabis Law. The Company uses METRC directly for cultivation and manufacturing.
Massachusetts
Massachusetts legalized medical marijuana when voters passed a ballot initiative in 2012. The Massachusetts Medical Use of Marijuana Program was formed pursuant to the Act for the Humanitarian Medical Use of Marijuana. Adult use marijuana became legal in Massachusetts as of December 15, 2016, following a ballot initiative in November 2016. Dispensaries for the adult use of cannabis in Massachusetts began operating in July 2018.
In Massachusetts, Registered Marijuana Dispensaries are “vertically-integrated,” which means Registered Marijuana Dispensaries grow, process and dispense their own marijuana. A Registered Marijuana Dispensary must have a retail facility, as well as cultivation and processing operations. Some Registered Marijuana Dispensaries elect to conduct cultivation, processing and retail operations all in one location, which is commonly referred to as a “co-located” operation. A Registered Marijuana Dispensary may also choose to have a retail dispensary in one location and grow marijuana at a remote cultivation location. A Registered Marijuana Dispensary may process marijuana at either a retail dispensary location or a remote cultivation location. The remote cultivation location need not be in the same municipality, or the same county, as the retail dispensary.
Massachusetts Licenses and Regulations
There is one principal license category in Massachusetts: vertically-integrated Registered Marijuana Dispensaries license. We are licensed to operate one medical and adult use cultivation/processing facility and one medical and adult use retail dispensary. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of Massachusetts. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in Massachusetts.
The Massachusetts Department of Public Health was the regulatory body that oversaw the original Massachusetts medical program, including all cultivation, processing and dispensary facilities. The Cannabis Control Commission, a regulatory body created in 2018, now oversees the medical and adult use programs, including licensing of cultivation, processing and dispensary facilities. Licensed medical dispensaries are given priority status in adult use licensing.
Each Massachusetts dispensary, cultivator and processor license is valid for one year and is subject to strict license renewal requirements.
The Registered Marijuana Dispensaries license permits us to cultivate, process and dispense medical and adult use cannabis.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in Massachusetts.
Massachusetts Reporting Requirements
The Commonwealth of Massachusetts uses the MMJ Online system through the Virtual Gateway portal as the state’s computerized T&T system for seed-to-sale reporting. Individual licensees, whether directly or through third-party integration systems, are required to push data to the state to meet all reporting requirements. We use an in-house computerized seed-to-sale software, which integrates with the state’s program and captures the required data points for cultivation, manufacturing and retail as required in the Massachusetts marijuana laws and regulations.
Nevada
Nevada became a medical marijuana state in 2001. In 2013, the Nevada legislature passed SB374, providing for state licensing of medical marijuana establishments. On November 8, 2016, Nevada voters passed NRS 435D by ballot initiative allowing for the sale of marijuana for adult use starting on July 1, 2017. In 2018, the Nevada Department of Taxation opened up applications for additional adult use marijuana dispensary licenses. Only those companies that held medical marijuana licenses in the state could apply. In December 2018, 61 additional marijuana dispensary licenses were issued by the Nevada Department of Taxation.
Nevada Licenses and Regulations
There are three principal license categories in Nevada: (1) cultivation, (2) processing and (3) dispensary. We are licensed to operate two medical and adult use cultivation facilities, three medical and adult use processing facilities, five medical dispensary licenses and up to 13 adult use retail locations. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of Nevada. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in Nevada.
Under applicable laws, the licenses permit us to cultivate, manufacture, process, package, sell and purchase marijuana pursuant to the terms of the licenses, which are issued by the Nevada Department of Taxation under the provisions of Nevada Revised Statutes section 453A. If applications contain all required information, establishments are issued a marijuana establishment registration certificate. In a local governmental jurisdiction that issues business licenses, the issuance by Nevada Department of Taxation, or its successor as of July 1, 2020, the Nevada Cannabis Compliance Board, of a marijuana establishment registration certificate is considered provisional until the local government has issued a business license for operation and an establishment is in compliance with all applicable local governmental ordinances. Final registration certificates are valid for a period of one year and are subject to strict renewal requirements.
The cultivation licenses permit us to acquire, possess, cultivate, deliver, transfer, have tested, transport, supply or sell marijuana and related supplies to marijuana dispensaries, facilities for the production of edible marijuana products and/or marijuana-infused products or other marijuana cultivation facilities.
The processing license permits us to acquire, possess, manufacture, deliver, transfer, transport, supply or sell edible marijuana products or marijuana infused products to other marijuana production facilities or marijuana dispensaries.
The retail dispensary licenses permit us to purchase marijuana from cultivation facilities, marijuana and marijuana products from product manufacturing facilities and marijuana from other retail stores, as well as allow the sale of marijuana and marijuana products.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in Nevada.
Nevada Reporting Requirements
The state of Nevada uses METRC as the state’s computerized T&T system for seed-to-sale reporting. Individual licensees, whether directly or through third-party integration systems, are required to push data to the state to meet all reporting requirements. We have designated an in-house computerized seed-to-sale software that integrates with METRC via API, which captures the required data points for cultivation, manufacturing and retail as required in Nevada Revised Statutes section 453A.
New Jersey
On January 18, 2010, the governor of New Jersey signed into law S.119, the Compassionate Use Medical Marijuana Act, permitting the use of medical cannabis for persons with certain debilitating conditions, including anxiety, cancer, chronic pain, post-traumatic stress disorder and seizure disorders. The law permits the New Jersey Department of Health to create rules to add other illnesses to the permitted conditions. The Compassionate Use Medical Marijuana Act mandates that cannabis must be acquired through Alternative Treatment Centers licensed by the State.
A single Alternative Treatment Centers license allows for the cultivation, processing and dispensing of medical marijuana products. Originally, each Alternative Treatment Centers was permitted to open one dispensary. With the Executive Order 6 Report, each Alternative Treatment Centers can now open two additional satellite dispensaries within their New Jersey Department of Health-designated region for a total of three dispensaries each, as well as satellite production facilities, subject to regulatory approval.
On March 27, 2018 through executive order No. 6 (2018), Governor Phil Murphy expanded the medical marijuana program, announcing the 20-plus recommendations presented by the New Jersey Department of Health on March 23, 2018. The New Jersey Department of Health’s recommendations and next steps included certain measures that took effect immediately (e.g. the addition of debilitating conditions and the reduction of registration fees) and other recommendations (e.g. the home delivery model) that require further regulatory or statutory enactment.
On July 2, 2019, Governor Phil Murphy signed the Jake Honig Compassionate Use Medical Cannabis Act into law, which amended the Compassionate Use Medical Marijuana Act. Previously, New Jersey law only permitted applicants to apply for vertically-integrated licenses. Under the Jake Honig Compassionate Use Medical Cannabis Act, the permit process includes three different permit types. The new permit types are medical cannabis cultivator, dispensary and manufacturer permits, which are to be applied for individually. The vertically-integrated Alternative Treatment Centers will continue to be able to cultivate, manufacture and dispense medical cannabis.
In December 2019, the New Jersey state legislature passed a bill to add an initiative to the November 2020 ballot allowing voters to decide whether to legalize the sale of adult use cannabis in the state. New Jersey voters subsequently approved Question 1 with approximately 67% of the votes, legalizing the cultivation, processing and sale of adult use cannabis in the state. On February 23, 2021, Governor Phil Murphy signed three bills into law that establish an adult use program in New Jersey for adults who are at least 21 years old. On February 25, 2021, Gov. Murphy announced his last picks to serve on the Cannabis Regulatory Commission, completing the panel that will undertake the job of regulating the legal marijuana industry and licensing new dispensaries and growers. It is not yet clear when New Jersey’s adult use sales will begin.
In November 2020, a New Jersey appellate court ruled that the state Department of Health must reconsider the applications of companies rejected during the 2018 licensing round, which is the licensing round in which our subsidiary was awarded a license. The companies alleged that the scoring was arbitrary. The appellate court remanded the issue back to the Department of Health but did not dictate what the Department of Health is to do.
There is also a lawsuit pending against the state Department of Health related to a 2019 licensing round that was to expand the state’s medical marijuana program. State regulators requested applications in 2019 for 24 new licenses for vertically integrated and stand-alone businesses, including cultivators and retailers, but a court halted review of those applications after a lawsuit alleged that the system had technical glitches. To date the lawsuit has not been resolved.
New Jersey Licenses and Regulations
There is currently one principal license category in New Jersey: vertically-integrated Alternative Treatment Centers license. We are licensed to operate one medical cultivation and processing facility and up to three retail medical cannabis dispensaries in the state of New Jersey. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of New Jersey. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in New Jersey.
The New Jersey Department of Health is responsible for issuing permits and administering the Compassionate Use Medical Marijuana Act to ensure qualifying patients’ access to safe cannabis for medical use in New Jersey.
Alternative Treatment Center permits expire annually on December 31. Strict permit renewal application requirements apply. See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in New Jersey.
New Jersey Reporting Requirements
New Jersey does not have a unified T&T system. All information is forwarded to the medical marijuana program through email. The Alternative Treatment Center collects and submits to the New Jersey Department of Health for each calendar year statistical data on (a) the number of registered qualified patients and registered primary caregivers, (b) the debilitating medical conditions of the qualified patients, (c) patient demographic data, (d) summary of the patient surveys and evaluation of services and (e) other information as the New Jersey Department of Health may require. The Alternative Treatment Center must retain records for at least two years. We also use an in-house computerized seed-to-sale software, which captures the required data points for cultivation, manufacturing and retail as required in the New Jersey marijuana laws and regulations.
New York
In July 2014, the New York Legislature and Governor enacted the Compassionate Care Act to provide a comprehensive, safe and effective medical marijuana program. The Compassionate Care Act provides access to the program for those who suffer from qualifying serious conditions including: cancer, HIV/AIDS, ALS and post-traumatic stress disorder. The program allows ten Registered Organizations to hold vertically-integrated licenses and service qualified patients and caregivers. Each Registered Organization has one cultivation/processing license and four dispensary licenses.
Under the terms of licenses in the state of New York, licensees are permitted to sell medical marijuana manufactured products that are approved by the New York State Department of Health to any qualified patient who possesses a physician’s recommendation, provided that the patient presents a valid government-issued photo identification and New York State Department of Health -issued Registry Identification Card proving that the patient or designated caregiver meets the statutory conditions to be a qualified patient or designated caregiver. The card contains the recommendation from the physician and the limitation on form or dosage of medical marijuana. In order for a patient or registered caregiver to receive dispensed marijuana, they must be logged into the Prescription Monitoring Program registry. The Prescription Monitoring Program registry is monitored by the New York State Department of Health and contains controlled substance prescription dispensing history and medical marijuana dispensing history to ensure that patients only receive up to the maximum allowable dispensed product from one Registered Organization. Only registered pharmacists can dispense medical marijuana to approved patients and caregivers.
New York Licenses and Regulations
There is one principal license category in New York: vertically-integrated license. We are licensed to operate one medical marijuana cultivation/manufacturing facility and up to four medical marijuana dispensaries. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of New York. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in New York.
The New York State Department of Health is the regulatory agency that oversees the medical marijuana program in New York. New York is a vertically-integrated system; however, the state does allow Registered Organizations to wholesale manufactured products to one another. As such, we have the ability to be vertically-integrated and cultivate, harvest, process, transport, sell and dispense cannabis products. Delivery is allowed from dispensaries to patients, however the delivery plan must be pre-approved by the New York State Department of Health.
New York Reporting Requirements
The State of New York has selected BioTrackTHC’s system as the state’s T&T system used to track commercial cannabis activity and seed-to-sale. The BioTrackTHC system must serve as all Registered Organizations’ patient verification system but is optional as Registered Organizations’ tracking system. We currently use BioTrackTHC as our seed-to-sale tracking system, we also integrate our in-house seed-to-sale tracking system with BioTrackTHC.
Every month the New York State Department of Health requests a dispensing report in Excel format, via email, showing all products dispensed for the month. This is the only report that we are required to submit to the New York State Department of Health. All other data is pulled by the New York State Department of Health directly from our seed-to-sale tracking system.
Ohio
House Bill 523, effective on September 8, 2016, legalized medical marijuana in Ohio. The Ohio Medical Marijuana Control Program allows people with certain medical conditions, upon the recommendation of an Ohio-licensed physician certified by the State Medical Board, to purchase and use medical marijuana. Over twenty medical conditions currently are recognized by the state to qualify a patient for a medical marijuana certificate, including cancer, glaucoma, epilepsy and certain terminal and chronic pain conditions. In November 2018, the state issued 12 ‘Level I’ cultivation licenses, which permit up to 25,000 square feet of canopy, and 12 ‘Level II’ cultivation licenses, which permit up to 3,000 square feet of canopy. In June 2018, the state issued 56 dispensary licenses. Subsequently, additional licenses have been granted.
By rule, the State of Ohio Board of Pharmacy is currently limited to issuing up to 60 dispensary licenses across the state. Under the program rules, the Board will consider, on at least a biennial basis, whether enough medical marijuana dispensaries exist, considering the state population, the number of patients seeking to use medical marijuana and the geographic distribution of dispensary sites.
Ohio License and Regulations
There are three principal license categories in Ohio: (1) cultivation, (2) processing and (3) dispensary. We are licensed to operate one medical marijuana cultivation facility, one medical marijuana processing facility and up to five retail medical marijuana dispensaries in the state of Ohio. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the State of Ohio. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in Ohio.
The three following state government agencies are responsible for the operation of Ohio’s Medical Marijuana Control Program: (1) the Ohio Department of Commerce oversees medical marijuana cultivators,
processors and testing laboratories; (2) the State of Ohio Board of Pharmacy oversees medical marijuana retail dispensaries, the registration of medical marijuana patients and caregivers, the approval of new forms of medical marijuana and coordinating the Medical Marijuana Advisory Committee; and (3) the State Medical Board of Ohio certifies physicians to recommend medical marijuana and may add to the list of qualifying conditions for which medical marijuana can be recommended.
Certificates of operation for dispensaries carry two-year terms, while certificates of operation for cultivators and processors must be renewed annually and are subject to strict license renewal application requirements.
The medical cultivation licenses permit us to acquire, possess, cultivate, manufacture/process into medical marijuana products, deliver, transfer, have tested, transport, supply or sell marijuana and related supplies to medical marijuana dispensaries. The medical processor license permits us to manufacture and produce medical marijuana products.
The dispensary licenses will permit us to purchase marijuana and marijuana products from cultivation and/or processing facilities, as well as allow the sale of marijuana and marijuana products to registered patients.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in Ohio.
Ohio Reporting Requirements
Ohio uses METRC as its seed-to-sale tracking system. Licensees are required to use METRC in Ohio to push data to the state to meet all of the reporting requirements. We integrate our in-house seed-to-sale tracking system with METRC to capture the required data points as required in the Ohio medical marijuana laws and regulations.
Pennsylvania
The Pennsylvania medical marijuana program was signed into law on April 17, 2016 under Act 16 and provided access to state residents with one or more qualifying conditions, including: epilepsy, chronic pain and post-traumatic stress disorder. The state originally awarded only 12 licenses to cultivate/process and 27 licenses to operate retail dispensaries (which entitled holders to up to three medical dispensary locations per retail license). Subsequently, additional licenses have been granted. For example, on March 22, 2018, it was announced that the final phase of the Pennsylvania medical marijuana program would initiate its rollout, which included 13 additional cultivation/processing licenses and 23 additional dispensary licenses. Additionally, the list of qualifying conditions was expanded which had the effect of increasing the number of individuals that could qualify for medical marijuana cards.
Pennsylvania Licenses and Regulations
There are two principal license categories in Pennsylvania: (1) cultivation/processing and (2) dispensary. Our subsidiary GTI Pennsylvania, LLC is licensed to operate a medical cultivation/processing facility and is also licensed to operate medical retail locations. Our subsidiary KW Ventures Holdings, LLC is also licensed to operate medical retail locations. All licenses are, as of the date hereof, active with the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. The licenses are independently issued for each approved activity for use at our facilities in Pennsylvania.
All cultivation/processing establishments and dispensaries must register with Pennsylvania Department of Health. Registration certificates are valid for a period of one year and are subject to strict annual renewal requirements. Under applicable laws, the licenses permit the license holder to cultivate, manufacture, process, package, sell and purchase medical marijuana pursuant to the terms of the licenses, which are issued by the Pennsylvania Department of Health under the provisions of Medical Marijuana Act and Pennsylvania regulations.
The medical cultivation/processing licenses permit us to acquire, possess, cultivate, manufacture/process into medical marijuana products and/or medical marijuana-infused products, deliver, transfer, have tested, transport, supply or sell marijuana and related supplies to medical marijuana dispensaries.
The retail dispensary licenses permit the Company to purchase marijuana and marijuana products from cultivation/processing facilities, as well as allow the sale of marijuana and marijuana products.
See Appendix A to this Annual Report for a list of the licenses issued to us with respect to our operations in Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania Reporting Requirements
Pennsylvania uses MJ Freeway as the state’s computerized T&T system for seed-to-sale reporting. Individual licensees are required to use MJ Freeway to push data to the state to meet all reporting requirements. We use MJ Freeway as our in-house computerized seed-to-sale software, which integrates with the state’s MJ Freeway program and captures the required data points for cultivation, manufacturing and retail as required in the Pennsylvania medical marijuana laws and regulations.
State License Renewal Requirements
For each of our provisional and operational licenses, the states impose strict license renewal requirements that vary state by state. We generally must complete the renewal application process within a prescribed period of time prior to the expiration date and pay an application fee. The state licensing body can deny or revoke licenses and renewals for a variety of reasons, including (a) submission of materially inaccurate, incomplete or fraudulent information, (b) failure of the company or any of its directors or officers to comply, or have a history of non-compliance, with any applicable law or regulation, including laws relating to minimum age of customers, safety and non-diversion of cannabis or cannabis products, taxes, child support, workers compensation and insurance coverage, or otherwise remain in good standing (c) failure to submit or implement a plan of correction for any identified violation, (d) attempting to assign registration to another entity without state approval, (e) insufficient financial resources, (f) committing, permitting, aiding or abetting of any illegal practices in the operation of a facility, (g) failure to cooperate or give information to relevant law enforcement related to any matter arising out of conduct at a licensed facility and (h) lack of responsible operations, as evidenced by negligence, disorderly or unsanitary facilities or permitting a person to use a registration card belonging to another person. Certain jurisdictions also require licensees to attend a public hearing or forum in connection with their license renewal application.
Compliance with Applicable Federal Law
We are in compliance with applicable cannabis licensing requirements and the regulatory framework enacted by each state in which it operates. We are not subject to any material citations or notices of violation of applicable licensing requirements or the regulatory framework enacted by each applicable state which may have an adverse impact on its licenses, business activities or operations.
We have in place a detailed compliance program and an internal legal and compliance department and are building out our operational compliance team across all states in which we operate. We also have external state and local regulatory/compliance counsel engaged in every jurisdiction in which we operate.
We provide training for all employees, including on the following topics:
•
Compliance with state and local laws
•
Safe cannabis use
•
Dispensing procedures
•
Security and safety policies and procedures
•
Inventory control
•
T&T training session
•
Quality control
•
Transportation procedures
We emphasize security and inventory control to ensure strict monitoring of cannabis and inventory, from delivery by a licensed distributor to sale or disposal. Only authorized, properly trained employees are allowed to access the Company’s computerized seed-to-sale system.
We monitor all compliance notifications from the regulators and inspectors in each market and timely resolve any issues identified. We keep records of all compliance notifications received from the state regulators or inspectors, as well as how and when an issue was resolved. Moreover, we monitor news sources for information regarding developments at the state and federal level relating to the regulation and criminalization of cannabis.
Further, we have created comprehensive standard operating procedures that include detailed descriptions and instructions for receiving shipments of inventory, inventory tracking, recordkeeping and record retention practices related to inventory. We also have comprehensive standard operating procedures in place for performing inventory reconciliation, and ensuring the accuracy of inventory tracking and recordkeeping. We maintain accurate records of our inventory at all licensed facilities. Adherence to our standard operating procedures is mandatory and ensures that our operations are compliant with the rules set forth by the applicable state and local laws, regulations, ordinances, licenses and other requirements. We ensure adherence to standard operating procedures by regularly conducting internal inspections and ensure that any issues identified are resolved quickly and thoroughly.
Federal Law
The inconsistencies between federal and state regulation of cannabis were addressed in a memorandum which then-Deputy Attorney General James Cole sent to all U.S. District Attorneys in August 2013 outlining certain priorities for the Department of Justice relating to the prosecution of cannabis offenses. The Cole Memorandum acknowledged that, notwithstanding the designation of cannabis as a Schedule I controlled substance at the federal level, several states had enacted laws authorizing the use of cannabis for medical purposes. The Cole Memorandum noted that jurisdictions that have enacted laws legalizing cannabis in some form have also implemented strong and effective regulatory and enforcement systems to control the cultivation, processing, distribution, sale and possession of cannabis. As such, conduct in compliance with those laws and regulations is less likely to implicate the Cole Memorandum’s enforcement priorities. The Department of Justice did not provide (and has not provided since) specific guidelines for what regulatory and enforcement systems would be deemed sufficient under the Cole Memorandum. In light of limited investigative and prosecutorial resources, the Cole Memorandum concluded that the Department of Justice should be focused on addressing only the most significant threats related to cannabis, such as distribution of cannabis from states where cannabis is legal to those where cannabis is illegal, the diversion of cannabis revenues to illicit drug cartels and sales of cannabis to minors.
On January 4, 2018, former U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions issued a new memorandum which rescinded the Cole Memorandum. The Sessions Memorandum stated, in part, that current law reflects “Congress’ determination that cannabis is a dangerous drug and cannabis activity is a serious crime,” and Mr. Sessions directed all U.S. Attorneys to enforce the laws enacted by Congress by following well-established principles when pursuing prosecutions related to cannabis activities. The Company is not aware of any prosecutions of investment companies doing routine business with licensed marijuana related businesses in light of the new
Department of Justice position. However, there can be no assurance that the federal government will not enforce federal laws relating to cannabis in the future. As a result of the Sessions Memorandum, federal prosecutors are now free to utilize their prosecutorial discretion to decide whether to prosecute cannabis activities, despite the existence of state-level laws that may be inconsistent with federal prohibitions. No direction was given to federal prosecutors in the Sessions Memorandum as to the priority they should ascribe to such cannabis activities, and thus it is uncertain how active U.S. federal prosecutors will be in relation to such activities.
Federal prosecutors appear to continue to use the Cole Memorandum’s priorities as an enforcement guide. Merrick Garland, who became Attorney General on March 10, 2021 has indicated that he would deprioritize enforcement of low-level cannabis crimes such as possession, and has shared his view that the government should focus on large-scale criminal enterprises that circumvent state legalization laws instead of going after people who abide by local cannabis policies. The Company believes it is too soon to determine what prosecutorial effects will be created by the rescission of the Cole Memorandum or any replacement thereof and when or if the Sessions Memorandum will be rescinded. President Joseph R. Biden, who assumed office in January 2021, has not yet indicated whether and when he will decriminalize or legalize cannabis and has previously stated that he is opposed to legalization. The sheer size of the cannabis industry, in addition to participation by state and local governments and investors, suggests that a large-scale federal enforcement operation would more than likely create unwanted political backlash for the Department of Justice and the current administration. It is also possible that the change of Congressional leadership in January 2021 could change the priorities of Congress and encourage reconciliation of federal and state laws. Regardless, at this time, cannabis remains a Schedule I controlled substance at the federal level. The U.S. federal government has always reserved the right to enforce federal law in regard to the sale and disbursement of medical or adult use cannabis, even if state law authorizes such sale and disbursement. It is unclear whether the risk of enforcement has been altered.
On June 7, 2018, the STATES Act was introduced in the Senate by Republican Senator Cory Gardner of Colorado and Democratic Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. A companion bill was introduced in the House by Democratic representative Jared Polis of Colorado. The bill provides in relevant part that the provisions of the Controlled Substances Act, as applied to marijuana, “shall not apply to any person acting in compliance with state law relating to the manufacture, production, possession, distribution, dispensation, administration, or delivery of marijuana.” Even though marijuana will remain within Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act under the STATES Act, the bill makes the Controlled Substances Act unenforceable to the extent it conflicts with state law. In essence, the bill extends the limitations afforded by the protection within the federal budget-which prevents the Department of Justice and the Drug Enforcement Agency from using funds to enforce federal law against state-legal medical cannabis commercial activity-to both medical and adult use cannabis activity in all states where it has been legalized. By allowing continued prohibition to be a choice by the individual states, the STATES Act does not fully legalize cannabis on a national level. In that respect, the bill emphasizes states’ rights under the Tenth Amendment, which provides that “the powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.” Under the STATES Act companies operating legal cannabis businesses would no longer be considered “trafficking” under the Controlled Substances Act, and this would likely assist financial institutions in transacting with individuals and businesses in the cannabis industry without the threat of money laundering prosecution, civil forfeiture and other criminal violations that could lead to a charter revocation. The STATES Act was reintroduced on April 4, 2019 in both the House and the Senate. Since the STATES Act is currently draft legislation, there is no guarantee that the STATES Act will become law in its current form.
One legislative safeguard for the medical cannabis industry, appended to the federal budget bill, remains in place following the rescission of the Cole Memorandum. For fiscal years 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, Congress adopted a so-called “rider” provision to the Consolidated Appropriations Acts (formerly referred to as the Rohrabacher-Farr Amendment and currently referred to as the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment) to prevent the federal government from using congressionally appropriated funds to enforce federal cannabis laws against regulated medical cannabis actors operating in compliance with state and local law. The Rohrabacher-Blumenauer
Amendment was included in the fiscal year 2018 budget passed on March 23, 2018. The Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment was included in the consolidated appropriations bill signed into legislation by President Trump in February 2019. In signing the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment, President Trump issued a signing statement noting that the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment “provides that the Department of Justice may not use any funds to prevent implementation of medical marijuana laws by various States and territories,” and further stating “I will treat this provision consistent with the President’s constitutional responsibility to faithfully execute the laws of the United States.” On June 20, 2019, the House approved a broader amendment that, in addition to protecting state medical cannabis programs, would also protect state adult use programs. On September 26, 2019, the Senate Appropriations Committee declined to take up the broader amendment but did approve the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment for the fiscal year 2020 spending bill. On September 27, 2019, the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment was renewed as part of a stopgap spending bill, in effect through November 21, 2019, and was then renewed through a series of stopgap spending bills passed in 2020. On December 27, 2020, the amendment was renewed through the signing of the fiscal year 2021 omnibus spending bill, effective through September 30, 2021. Despite the rescission of the Cole Memorandum, the Department of Justice appears to continue to adhere to the enforcement priorities set forth in the Cole Memorandum. Accordingly, as an industry best practice, the Company continues to employ the following policies to ensure compliance with the guidance provided by the Cole Memorandum:
•
Our operations and our subsidiaries’ operations are compliant with all licensing requirements as established by the applicable state, county, municipality, town, township, borough and other political/administrative divisions; to this end, we retain appropriately experienced legal counsel to conduct the necessary due diligence to ensure compliance of such operations with all applicable state and local laws;
•
the cannabis-related activities adhere to the scope of the licensing obtained-for example, in states where only medical cannabis is permitted, the products are only sold to patients who hold the necessary documentation to permit the possession of the cannabis; in states where cannabis is permitted for adult use, the products are only sold to individuals who meet the requisite age requirements;
•
We only work through licensed operators, which must pass a range of requirements, adhere to strict business practice standards and be subject to strict regulatory oversight to ensure that no revenue is distributed to criminal enterprises, gangs or cartels;
•
We have implemented an inventory tracking system and necessary procedures to ensure that such compliance system is effective in tracking inventory and preventing diversion of cannabis or cannabis products into those states where cannabis is not permitted by state law or cross any state lines in general;
•
Our state-authorized cannabis business activity is not used as a cover or pretense for trafficking of other illegal drugs, and we are not engaged in any other illegal activity or any activities that are contrary to any applicable anti-money laundering statutes; and
•
We conduct reviews of products and product packaging to ensure that the products comply with applicable regulations and contain necessary disclaimers about the contents of the products to prevent adverse public health consequences from cannabis use and prevent impaired driving.
The Cole Memorandum and the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment gave licensed cannabis operators (particularly medical cannabis operators) and investors in states with legal regimes greater certainty regarding the Department of Justice’s enforcement priorities and the risk of operating cannabis businesses. While the Sessions Memorandum has introduced some uncertainty regarding federal enforcement, the cannabis industry continues to experience growth in legal medical and adult use markets across the United States. Attorney General Merrick Garland, who assumed office on March 10, 2021, has indicated that he would deprioritize enforcement of low-level cannabis crimes such as possession, and has shared his view that the government should focus on large-scale criminal enterprises that circumvent state legalization laws instead of going after people who abide by local cannabis policies. Vice President Kamala Harris is the lead sponsor of the Marijuana Opportunity,
Reinvestment, and Expungement (MORE) Act, which seeks to end the federal prohibition of marijuana, among other things, but in March 2020, it was reported that Vice President Harris has adopted the same position as President Joseph R. Biden, who opposes legalization. Currently, there is no guarantee that state laws legalizing and regulating the sale and use of cannabis will remain in place or that local governmental authorities will not limit the applicability of state laws within their respective jurisdictions. Unless and until the United States Congress amends the Controlled Substances Act with respect to cannabis (and as to the timing or scope of any such potential amendments there can be no assurance), there is a risk that federal authorities may enforce current U.S. federal law criminalizing cannabis.
We will continue to monitor compliance on an ongoing basis in accordance with our compliance program and standard operating procedures. While our operations are in full compliance with all applicable state laws, regulations and licensing requirements, such activities remain illegal under federal law. For the reasons described above and the risks further described in the section entitled “Risk Factors,” there are significant risks associated with our business. Readers of this Form are strongly encouraged to carefully read all of the risk factors contained in Item 1A - “Risk Factors.”
Ability to Access Public and Private Capital
Due to the present state of the laws and regulations governing financial institutions in the U.S., banks often refuse to provide banking services to businesses involved in the marijuana industry and U.S. multistate operators are currently not permitted to list securities on the U.S. exchanges. Consequently, it may be difficult for us to obtain financing from large U.S. financial institutions.
We have historically, and continue to have, access to equity and debt financing from non-public (i.e., private placement) markets and state-chartered financial institutions. Our executive team and Board have extensive relationships with sources of capital (such as funds and high net worth individuals).
In addition to our working capital, we continue to generate adequate cash to fund our operations from capital raising transactions, including:
•
the Convertible Promissory Note;
•
the SR Offering;
•
the C$80.3 million bought deal financing in August 2018;
•
the C$101.7 million bought deal financing in October 2018;
•
the Bridge Notes;
•
the Notes;
•
the $39.6 million sale and lease back transaction with IIP for the Danville, Pennsylvania facility in November 2019;
•
the $32.2 million sale and leaseback transaction with IIP for the Toledo, Ohio facility in January 2020;
•
the $50.0 million sale and lease back transaction with IIP for the Oglesby, Illinois facility in March 2020;
•
the sale of approximately 4.7 million of our subordinate voting shares for approximately $156 million pursuant to our Registration Statement on Form S-1 that was declared effective by the SEC as of February 8, 2021.
Our business plan continues to include aggressive growth, both in the form of additional acquisitions and through facility expansion and improvements. Accordingly, we expect to raise additional capital, both in the form of debt and new equity offerings during the next few years.
However, there can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or on terms which are acceptable.
Restricted Access to Banking and Other Financial Services
FinCEN issued the FinCEN Memorandum on February 14, 2014 with respect to financial institutions providing banking services to cannabis businesses. These include burdensome due diligence expectations and reporting requirements. The FinCEN Memorandum outlines the pathways for financial institutions to bank state-sanctioned cannabis businesses in compliance with federal enforcement priorities. The FinCEN Memorandum echoed the enforcement priorities of the Cole Memorandum and states that, in some circumstances, it is permissible for banks to provide services to cannabis-related businesses without risking prosecution for violation of federal money laundering laws. Under these guidelines, financial institutions must submit a Suspicious Activity Report in connection with all cannabis-related banking activities by any client of such financial institution, in accordance with federal money laundering laws. These cannabis-related Suspicious Activity Reports are divided into three categories-cannabis limited, cannabis priority, and cannabis terminated-based on the financial institution’s belief that the business in question follows state law, is operating outside of compliance with state law, or where the banking relationship has been terminated, respectively.
Former U.S. Attorney General Sessions’ revocation of the Cole Memorandum has not affected the status of the FinCEN Memorandum, nor has the Department of the Treasury given any indication that it intends to rescind the FinCEN Memorandum itself. Shortly after the Sessions Memorandum was issued, FinCEN did state that it would review the FinCEN Memorandum, but FinCEN has not yet issued further guidance. The FinCEN Memorandum is a standalone document which explicitly lists the eight enforcement priorities originally cited in the Cole Memorandum. As such, the FinCEN Memorandum remains intact, indicating that the Department of the Treasury and FinCEN intend to continue abiding by its guidance.
However, the FinCEN Memorandum does not provide any safe harbors or legal defenses from examination or regulatory or criminal enforcement actions by the Department of Justice, FinCEN or other federal regulators or for banks and other financial institutions. Thus, most banks and other financial institutions in the United States do not appear comfortable providing banking services to cannabis-related businesses or relying on this guidance, given that it has the potential to be amended or revoked by the current administration. In addition to the foregoing, banks and/or card networks may refuse to process debit card payments and credit card companies generally refuse to process credit card payments for cannabis-related businesses. As a result, we may have limited or no access to banking or other financial services in the United States. In addition, federal money laundering statutes and regulations under the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by Title III of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the “USA Patriot Act”), discourage financial institutions from working with any organization that sells a controlled substance, regardless of whether the state it operates in permits cannabis sales. The inability or limitation on our ability to open or maintain bank accounts, obtain other banking services and/or accept credit card and debit card payments may make it difficult for us to operate and conduct our business as planned or to operate efficiently.
Federally-chartered banks and other depository institutions are currently hindered by federal law from providing financial services to marijuana businesses, even in states where those businesses are regulated. On March 7, 2019, Democratic representative Ed Perlmutter of Colorado introduced the SAFE Banking Act, which would protect banks and their employees from punishment for providing services to cannabis businesses that are legal on a state level. The bill was advanced by the House Financial Services Committee on March 28, 2019 and passed with strong bipartisan support in the House of Representatives on September 25, 2019. Some industry observers anticipate that the bill will be signed into law within the next year, which would, as noted above, allow financial institutions to provide services to marijuana related businesses without risk of violating federal money laundering statutes.
Newly Established Legal Regime
Our business activities rely on newly established and/or developing laws and regulations in the states in which it operates. These laws and regulations are rapidly evolving and subject to change with minimal notice. Regulatory changes may adversely affect our profitability or cause us to cease operations entirely. The cannabis industry may come under further scrutiny by the Food and Drug Administration, the SEC, the Department of Justice, the Financial Industry Regulatory Advisory and other regulatory authorities that supervise or regulate the production, distribution, sale and use of cannabis for medical and nonmedical purposes in the United States. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed. The regulatory uncertainty surrounding the industry may adversely affect our business and operations, including without limitation, the costs to remain compliant with applicable laws and the impairment of our business or the ability to raise additional capital.
Available Information
Our website address is www.gtigrows.com. Through this website, our filings with the SEC, including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, will be accessible (free of charge) as soon as reasonably practicable after materials are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this document.
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
Summary of Risk Factors
Our business is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties of which you should be aware before making a decision to invest in our Subordinate Voting Shares. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks summarized in this risk factor summary; and other risks we face, can be found below under the heading “Risk Factors” and should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making a decision to invest in our Subordinate Voting Shares. These risks include, among others, the following:
•
Cannabis remains illegal under federal law, and enforcement of cannabis laws could change.
•
We may be subject to action by the U.S. federal government.
•
State regulation of cannabis is uncertain.
•
We may be subject to heightened scrutiny by Canadian regulatory authorities.
•
We may face limitations on ownership of cannabis licenses.
•
We may become subject to Food and Drug Administration or Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives regulation.
•
Cannabis businesses are subject to applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations and have restricted access to banking and other financial services.
•
We may face difficulties acquiring additional financing.
•
We lack access to U.S. bankruptcy protections.
•
We operate in a highly regulated sector and may not always succeed in complying fully with applicable regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where we carry on business.
•
We may face difficulties in enforcing our contracts.
•
We have limited trademark protection.
•
Cannabis businesses are subject to unfavorable U.S. tax treatment.
•
Cannabis businesses may be subject to civil asset forfeiture.
•
We are subject to proceeds of crime statutes.
•
We face exposure to fraudulent or illegal activity.
•
Our use of joint ventures, strategic partnerships and alliances may expose us to risks associated with jointly owned investments.
•
We face risks due to industry immaturity or limited comparable, competitive or established industry best practices.
•
We face risks related to our products.
•
We are dependent on the popularity of consumer acceptance of our brand portfolio.
•
Our business is subject to the risks inherent in agricultural operations.
•
We may be adversely impacted by rising or volatile energy costs.
•
We face an inherent risk of product liability and similar claims.
•
Our products may be subject to product recalls.
•
We may face unfavorable publicity or consumer perception.
•
Our voting control is concentrated.
•
Our capital structure and voting control may cause unpredictability.
•
Sales of substantial amounts of Subordinate Voting Shares by our existing shareholders in the public market may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Subordinate Voting Shares.
•
We are governed by the corporate laws in British Columbia, Canada which in some cases have a different effect on shareholders than the corporate laws in Delaware, United States.
Risk Factors
Certain factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. You should carefully consider the following risks, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections titled “Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Any of the following risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, which would cause you to lose all or part of your investment. Our business, financial condition, operating results, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material.
Risks Related to Our Business
Cannabis remains illegal under federal law, and enforcement of cannabis laws could change.
Cannabis is illegal under U.S. federal law. In those states in which the use of cannabis has been legalized, its use remains a violation of federal law pursuant to the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. § 811). The Controlled Substances Act classifies cannabis as a Schedule I controlled substance, and as such, medical and adult use cannabis use is illegal under U.S. federal law. Unless and until Congress amends the Controller Substances Act with respect to cannabis (and the President approves such amendment), there is a risk that federal authorities may enforce current federal law. If that occurs, we may be deemed to be producing, cultivating or
dispensing cannabis and drug paraphernalia in violation of federal law. Since federal law criminalizing the use of cannabis pre-empts state laws that legalize its use, enforcement of federal law regarding cannabis is a significant risk and would greatly harm our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
Our activities are, and will continue to be, subject to evolving regulation by governmental authorities. We are directly or indirectly engaged in the medical and adult use cannabis industry in the United States where local state law permits such activities. The legality of the production, cultivation, extraction, distribution, retail sales, transportation and use of cannabis differs among states in the United States. Due to the current regulatory environment in the United States, new risks may emerge, and management may not be able to predict all such risks.
As of December 31, 2020, and despite the clear conflict with U.S. federal law, 35 states, plus the District of Columbia (and the territories of Guam, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands) have legalized cannabis for medical use, while 15 of those states and the District of Columbia have legalized adult use of cannabis for recreational purposes. In November 2020, voters in Arizona, Montana, New Jersey and South Dakota voted by referendum to legalize cannabis for adult use, and voters in Mississippi and South Dakota voted to legalized cannabis for Medical use, and in February 2021, the Virginia legislature approved a bill that would legalize cannabis for adult use beginning in 2024. The Virginia bill is awaiting signature by the governor, and if signed, Virginia will be the first southern state to legalize cannabis for adult use. Also in February 2021, New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy signed three bills into law that legalize cannabis for adult use.
Our activities in the medical and adult use cannabis industry may be illegal under the applicable federal laws of the United States. There can be no assurances that the federal government of the United States will not seek to enforce the applicable laws against us. The consequences of such enforcement would be materially adverse to us and our business, including its reputation, profitability and the market price of its publicly traded shares, and could result in the forfeiture or seizure of all or substantially all of our assets.
Due to the conflicting views between state legislatures and the federal government regarding cannabis, cannabis businesses are subject to inconsistent laws and regulations. The Obama Administration attempted to address the inconsistent treatment of cannabis under state and federal law in the Cole Memorandum that Deputy Attorney General James Cole sent to all U.S. Attorneys in August 2013, which outlined certain priorities for the Department of Justice relating to the prosecution of cannabis offenses. The Cole Memorandum noted that, in jurisdictions that have enacted laws legalizing cannabis in some form and that have also implemented strong and effective regulatory and enforcement systems to control the cultivation, processing, distribution, sale and possession of cannabis, conduct in compliance with such laws and regulations was not a priority for the Department of Justice. However, the Department of Justice did not provide (and has not provided since) specific guidelines for what regulatory and enforcement systems would be deemed sufficient under the Cole Memorandum.
On January 4, 2018, former U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions formally issued a memorandum, which we refer to as the Sessions Memorandum, which rescinded the Cole Memorandum effective upon its issuance. The Sessions Memorandum stated, in part, that current law reflects “Congress’ determination that cannabis is a dangerous drug and cannabis activity is a serious crime,” and Mr. Sessions directed all U.S. Attorneys to enforce the laws enacted by Congress and to follow well-established principles when pursuing prosecutions related to cannabis activities. As a result of the Sessions Memorandum, federal prosecutors are now free to utilize their prosecutorial discretion to decide whether to prosecute cannabis activities, despite the existence of state-level laws that may be inconsistent with federal prohibitions. No direction was given to federal prosecutors in the Sessions Memorandum as to the priority they should ascribe to such cannabis activities, and thus it is uncertain how active U.S. federal prosecutors will be in relation to such activities.
There can be no assurance that the federal government will not enforce federal laws relating to cannabis and seek to prosecute cases involving cannabis businesses that are otherwise compliant with state laws in the future.
President Biden has nominated Merrick Garland to serve as Attorney General in his administration. It is not yet known whether the Department of Justice under President Biden and Attorney General Garland will re-adopt the Cole Memorandum or announce a substantive cannabis enforcement policy, although, Mr. Garland has indicated he would deprioritize enforcement of low-level cannabis crimes such as possession. One legislative safeguard for the medical cannabis industry, appended to the federal budget bill, remains in place following the rescission of the Cole Memorandum. For fiscal years 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018, Congress adopted a so-called “rider” provision to the Consolidated Appropriations Acts (formerly referred to as the Rohrabacher-Farr Amendment and currently referred to as the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment) to prevent the federal government from using congressionally appropriated funds to enforce federal cannabis laws against regulated medical cannabis actors operating in compliance with state and local law. The Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment was included in the fiscal year 2018 budget passed on March 23, 2018. The Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment was included in the consolidated appropriations bill signed into legislation by former President Trump in February 2019. In signing the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment, former President Trump issued a signing statement noting that the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment “provides that the Department of Justice may not use any funds to prevent implementation of medical cannabis laws by various States and territories,” and further stating “I will treat this provision consistent with the President’s constitutional responsibility to faithfully execute the laws of the United States.” On June 20, 2019, the House approved a broader amendment that, in addition to protecting state medical cannabis programs, would also protect state adult use programs. On September 26, 2019, the Senate Appropriations Committee declined to take up the broader amendment but did approve the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment for the fiscal year 2020 spending bill. On September 27, 2019, the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment was renewed as part of a stopgap spending bill, in effect through November 21, 2019. On December 27, 2020, the amendment was renewed through the signing of the fiscal year 2021 omnibus spending bill, effective through September 30, 2021.
The Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment may or may not be renewed as part of a subsequent stopgap spending bill or omnibus appropriations package in order to prevent the federal government from using congressionally appropriated funds to enforce federal cannabis laws against regulated medical cannabis actors operating in compliance with state and local law. If the Rohrabacher-Blumenauer Amendment is not renewed, potential proceedings could involve significant restrictions being imposed upon us or third parties and divert the attention of key executives. Such proceedings could also have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition, as well our reputation, even if such proceedings were concluded successfully in our favor. Further, there is no guarantee that draft legislation such as the Strengthening the Tenth Amendment Through Entrusting States Act (S. Bill 3032), which we refer to as the STATES Act will become law in its current form.
The uncertainty of U.S. federal enforcement practices going forward and the inconsistency between U.S. federal and state laws and regulations present major risks for us.
We may be subject to action by the U.S. federal government.
Since the cultivation, processing, production, distribution and sale of cannabis for any purpose, medical, adult use or otherwise, remain illegal under U.S. federal law, it is possible that we may be forced to cease activities. The U.S. federal government, through, among others, the Department of Justice, its sub-agency the Drug Enforcement Administration and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, has the right to actively investigate, audit and shut down cannabis growing facilities, processors and retailers. The U.S. federal government may also attempt to seize the property of the Company. Any action taken by the Department of Justice, the Drug Enforcement Administration and/or the Internal Revenue Service to interfere with, seize or shut down our operations will have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
Since federal law criminalizing the use of cannabis pre-empts state laws that legalize its use, the federal government can assert criminal violations of federal law despite state laws permitting the use of cannabis. While
it does not appear that federal law enforcement and regulatory agencies are focusing resources on licensed cannabis related businesses that are operating in compliance with state law, the stated position of the current administration is hostile to legal cannabis. As the recession of the Cole Memorandum and the implementation of the Sessions Memorandum demonstrate, the Department of Justice may at any time issue additional guidance that directs federal prosecutors to devote more resources to prosecuting cannabis related businesses. In the event that the Department of Justice under U.S. Attorney General Garland aggressively pursues financiers or equity owners of cannabis-related businesses, and U.S. Attorneys follow the Department of Justice policies through pursuing prosecutions, then we could face:
(i) seizure of our cash and other assets used to support or derived from our cannabis subsidiaries;
(ii) the arrest of our employees, directors, officers, managers and investors; and
(iii) ancillary criminal violations of the Controlled Substances Act for aiding and abetting, and conspiracy to violate the Controlled Substances Act by providing financial support to cannabis companies that service or provide goods to state-licensed or permitted cultivators, processors, distributors and/or retailers of cannabis.
Because the Cole Memorandum was rescinded, the Department of Justice or an aggressive federal prosecutor could allege that Green Thumb Industries Inc., and our Board, our executive officers and, potentially, our shareholders, “aided and abetted” violations of federal law by providing finances and services to our portfolio cannabis companies. Under these circumstances, federal prosecutors could seek to seize our assets, and to recover the “illicit profits” previously distributed to shareholders resulting from any of our financing or services. In these circumstances, the Company’s operations would cease, shareholders may lose their entire investments and directors, officers and/or shareholders may be left to defend any criminal charges against them at their own expense and, if convicted, be sent to federal prison.
Additionally, there can be no assurance as to the position the Biden administration or any future administration may take on cannabis, and a new administration could decide to enforce the federal laws strongly. Any enforcement of current federal cannabis laws could cause significant financial damage to us and our shareholders. Further, future presidential administrations may choose to treat cannabis differently and potentially enforce the federal laws more aggressively.
Violations of any federal laws and regulations could result in significant fines, penalties, administrative sanctions, convictions or settlements arising from civil proceedings conducted by either the federal government or private citizens, or criminal charges, including, but not limited to, disgorgement of profits, cessation of business activities or divestiture. These results could have a material adverse effect on us, including our reputation and ability to conduct business, our holding (directly or indirectly) of cannabis licenses in the United States, the listing of our securities on various stock exchanges, our financial position, operating results, profitability or liquidity or the market price of its Subordinate Voting Shares. In addition, it is difficult to estimate the time or resources that would be needed for the investigation or final resolution of any such matters because: (i) the time and resources that may be needed depend on the nature and extent of any information requested by the authorities involved, and (ii) such time or resources could be substantial.
State regulation of cannabis is uncertain.
There is no assurance that state laws legalizing and regulating the sale and use of cannabis will not be repealed or overturned, or that local governmental authorities will not limit the applicability of state laws within their respective jurisdictions. If the U.S. federal government begins to enforce U.S. federal laws relating to cannabis in states where the sale and use of cannabis is currently legal, or if existing state laws are repealed or curtailed, the Company’s business or operations in those states or under those laws would be materially and adversely affected. Federal actions against any individual or entity engaged in the cannabis industry or a substantial repeal of cannabis related legislation could adversely affect the Company, its business and its assets or investments.
The rulemaking process at the state level that applies to cannabis operators in any state will be ongoing and result in frequent changes. As a result, a compliance program is essential to manage regulatory risk. All operating policies and procedures implemented by the Company are compliance-based and are derived from the state regulatory structure governing ancillary cannabis businesses and their relationships to state-licensed or permitted cannabis operators, if any. Notwithstanding the Company’s efforts and diligence, regulatory compliance and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals can be costly and time-consuming. No assurance can be given that the Company will receive the requisite licenses, permits or cards to continue operating its businesses.
In addition, local laws and ordinances could restrict the Company’s business activity. Although the Company’s operations are legal under the laws of the states in which the Company’s business operate, local governments have the ability to limit, restrict and ban cannabis businesses from operating within their jurisdiction. Land use, zoning, local ordinances and similar laws could be adopted or changed and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business.
Multiple states where medical and/or adult use cannabis is legal have or are considering special taxes or fees on businesses in the marijuana industry. It is uncertain at this time whether other states are in the process of reviewing such additional taxes and fees. The implementation of special taxes or fees could have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
The Company currently operates in California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania and intends to operate in other states as deemed appropriate by management.
State regulatory agencies may require the Company to post bonds or significant fees.
There is a risk that a greater number of state regulatory agencies will begin requiring entities engaged in certain aspects of the business or industry of legal marijuana to post a bond or significant fees when applying, for example, for a dispensary license or renewal as a guarantee of payment of sales and franchise taxes. The Company is not able to quantify at this time the potential scope of such bonds or fees in the states in which it currently operates or may in the future operate. Any bonds or fees of material amounts could have a negative impact on the ultimate success of the Company’s business.
We may be subject to heightened scrutiny by Canadian regulatory authorities.
Currently, the Company is traded on the CSE and on over-the-counter markets in the United States. The business, operations and investments of the Company in the United States, and any future business, operations or investments, may become the subject of heightened scrutiny by regulators, stock exchanges and other authorities in Canada and the United States. As a result, the Company may be subject to significant direct and indirect interaction with public officials. There can be no assurance that this heightened scrutiny will not in turn lead to the imposition of certain restrictions on the Company’s ability to operate or invest in the United States or any other jurisdiction, in addition to those described herein.
In 2017, there were concerns that the Canadian Depository for Securities Limited, through its subsidiary CDS Clearing and Depository Services Inc. (“CDS”), Canada’s central securities depository (clearing and settling trades in the Canadian equity, fixed income and money markets), would refuse to settle trades for cannabis issuers that have investments in the United States. However, CDS has not implemented this policy.
On February 8, 2018, the Canadian Securities Administrators published Staff Notice 51-352 describing the Canadian Securities Administrators’ disclosure expectations for specific risks facing issuers with cannabis-related activities in the U.S. Staff Notice 51-352 confirms that a disclosure-based approach remains appropriate for issuers with U.S. cannabis-related activities. Staff Notice 51-352 includes additional disclosure expectations that apply to all issuers with U.S. cannabis-related activities, including those with direct and indirect involvement in the cultivation and distribution of cannabis, as well as issuers that provide goods and services to third parties involved in the U.S. cannabis industry.
On February 8, 2018, following discussions with the Canadian Securities Administrators and recognized Canadian securities exchanges, the TMX Group, which is the owner and operator of CDS, announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (“MOU”) with Aequitas NEO Exchange Inc., the CSE, the Toronto Stock Exchange and the TSX Venture Exchange (“TSXV”). The MOU outlines the parties’ understanding of Canada’s regulatory framework applicable to the rules, procedures and regulatory oversight of the exchanges and CDS as it relates to issuers with cannabis-related activities in the United States. The MOU confirms, with respect to the clearing of listed securities, that CDS relies on the Canadian securities exchanges to review the conduct of listed issuers. The MOU notes that securities regulation requires that the rules of each of the exchanges must not be contrary to the public interest and that the rules of each of the exchanges have been approved by the securities regulators. Pursuant to the MOU, CDS will not ban accepting deposits of or transactions for clearing and settlement of securities of issuers with cannabis-related activities in the United States. Even though the MOU indicated that there are no plans to ban the settlement of securities through CDS, there can be no guarantee that this approach to regulation will continue in the future. If such a ban were implemented at a time when Subordinate Voting Shares are listed on a Canadian stock exchange, it would have a material adverse effect on the ability of holders of Subordinate Voting Shares to make and settle trades. In particular, the Subordinate Voting Shares would become highly illiquid until an alternative (if available) was implemented, and investors would have no ability to effect a trade of Subordinate Voting Shares through the facilities of the applicable Canadian stock exchange.
We may face limitations on ownership of cannabis licenses.
In certain states, the cannabis laws and regulations limit not only the number of cannabis licenses issued, but also the number of cannabis licenses that one person or entity may own. Such limitations on the ownership of additional licenses within certain states may limit the Company’s ability to grow in such states. The Company employs joint ventures from time to time to ensure continued compliance with the applicable regulatory guidelines. Currently, the Company has joint ventures with third parties in Connecticut and Illinois. The Company structures its joint ventures on a case-by-case basis but generally maintains operational control over the joint venture business and a variable economic interest through the applicable governing documents.
We may become subject to Food and Drug Administration or Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives regulation.
Cannabis remains a Schedule I controlled substance under U.S. federal law. If the federal government reclassifies cannabis to a Schedule II controlled substance, it is possible that the FDA would seek to regulate cannabis under the Food, Drug and Cosmetics Act of 1938. Additionally, the FDA may issue rules and regulations, including good manufacturing practices, related to the growth, cultivation, harvesting and processing of medical cannabis. Clinical trials may be needed to verify the efficacy and safety of cannabis. It is also possible that the FDA would require facilities where medical use cannabis is grown to register with the FDA and comply with certain federally prescribed regulations. In the event that some or all of these regulations are imposed, the impact they would have on the cannabis industry is unknown, including the costs, requirements and possible prohibitions that may be enforced. If the Company is unable to comply with the potential regulations or registration requirements prescribed by the FDA, it may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
It is also possible that the federal government could seek to regulate cannabis under the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives may issue rules and regulations related to the use, transporting, sale and advertising of cannabis or cannabis products, including smokeless cannabis products.
Cannabis businesses are subject to applicable anti-money laundering laws and regulations and have restricted access to banking and other financial services.
We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States that involve money laundering, financial record-keeping and proceeds of crime, including the U.S. Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, (which we refer to as the Bank Secrecy Act), as amended by Title III of the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (which we refer to as the USA Patriot Act), and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by governmental authorities in the United States. Accordingly, pursuant to the Bank Secrecy Act, banks or other financial institutions that provide a cannabis business with a checking account, debit or credit card, small business loan or any other service could be found guilty of money laundering, aiding and abetting, or conspiracy.
The United States Department of the Treasury’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, which we refer to as FinCEN, issued a memorandum on February 14, 2014, which we refer to as the FinCEN Memorandum, outlining the pathways for financial institutions to bank cannabis businesses in compliance with federal enforcement priorities. The FinCEN Memorandum states that in some circumstances, it is permissible for banks to provide services to cannabis-related businesses without risking prosecution for violation of federal money laundering laws. The FinCEN Memorandum refers to the Cole Memorandum’s enforcement priorities.
The revocation of the Cole Memorandum has not yet affected the status of the FinCEN Memorandum, nor has FinCEN given any indication that it intends to rescind the FinCEN Memorandum itself. Shortly after the Sessions Memorandum was issued, FinCEN did state that it would review the FinCEN Memorandum, but FinCEN has not yet issued further guidance.
Although the FinCEN Memorandum remains intact, it is unclear whether the Biden administration will continue to follow its guidelines, or what may happen under future administrations. The Department of Justice continues to have the right and power to prosecute crimes committed by banks and financial institutions, such as money laundering and violations of the Bank Secrecy Act, that occur in any state including states that have in some form legalized the sale of cannabis. Further, the conduct of the Department of Justice’s enforcement priorities could change for any number of reasons. A change in the Department of Justice’s priorities could result in the prosecution of banks and financial institutions for crimes that were not previously prosecuted.
If our operations, or proceeds thereof, dividend distributions or profits or revenues derived from our operations were found to be in violation of money laundering legislation or otherwise, such transactions may be viewed as proceeds from a crime (the sale of a Schedule I drug) under the Bank Secrecy Act’s money laundering provisions. This may restrict our ability to declare or pay dividends or effect other distributions.
The FinCEN Memorandum does not provide any safe harbors or legal defenses from examination or regulatory or criminal enforcement actions by the Department of Justice, FinCEN or other federal regulators. Thus, most banks and other financial institutions in the United States do not appear comfortable providing banking services to cannabis-related businesses or relying on this guidance given that it has the potential to be amended or revoked by the current administration. In addition to the foregoing, banks may refuse to process debit card payments and credit card companies generally refuse to process credit card payments for cannabis-related businesses. As a result, we may have limited or no access to banking or other financial services in the United States. In addition, federal money laundering statutes and Bank Secrecy Act regulations discourage financial institutions from working with any organization that sells a controlled substance, regardless of whether the state it operates in permits cannabis sales. Our inability or limitation of our ability to open or maintain bank accounts, obtain other banking services and/or accept credit card and debit card payments may make it difficult for us to operate and conduct our business as planned or to operate efficiently.
Banks and other depository institutions are currently hindered by federal law from providing financial services to cannabis businesses, even in states where those businesses are regulated. On March 7, 2019,
Democratic representative Ed Perlmutter of Colorado introduced house bill H.R. 1595, known as the Secure and Fair Enforcement (SAFE) Banking Act of 2019 (H.R. 1595), which we refer to as the SAFE Banking Act, which would protect banks and their employees from punishment for providing services to cannabis businesses that are legal on a state level. The bill was advanced by the House Financial Services Committee on March 28, 2019 and passed with strong bipartisan support in the House of Representatives on September 25, 2019.
We may face difficulties acquiring additional financing.
We may require equity and/or debt financing to support on-going operations, to undertake capital expenditures or to undertake acquisitions and/or other business combination transactions. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available to us when needed or on terms which are acceptable. Our inability to raise financing through traditional banking to fund on-going operations, capital expenditures or acquisitions could limit its growth and may have a material adverse effect upon the Company’s business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
We lack access to U.S. bankruptcy protections.
Many courts have denied cannabis businesses bankruptcy protections because the use of cannabis is illegal under federal law. In the event of a bankruptcy, it would be very difficult for lenders to recoup their investments in the cannabis industry. If the Company were to experience a bankruptcy, there is no guarantee that U.S. federal bankruptcy protections would be available to us, which would have a material adverse effect on us.
We operate in a highly regulated sector and may not always succeed in complying fully with applicable regulatory requirements in all jurisdictions where we carry on business.
Our business and activities are heavily regulated in all jurisdictions where we carry on business. Our operations are subject to various laws, regulations and guidelines by state and local governmental authorities relating to the manufacture, marketing, management, transportation, storage, sale, pricing and disposal of cannabis and cannabis oil, and also including laws and regulations relating to health and safety, insurance coverage, the conduct of operations and the protection of the environment. Laws and regulations, applied generally, grant government agencies and self-regulatory bodies broad administrative discretion over our activities, including the power to limit or restrict business activities as well as impose additional disclosure requirements on our products and services. Achievement of our business objectives is contingent, in part, upon compliance with regulatory requirements enacted by these governmental authorities and obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for the manufacture, production, storage, transportation, sale, import and export, as applicable, of our products. The commercial cannabis industry is still a new industry at the state and local level. The effect of relevant governmental authorities’ administration, application and enforcement of their respective regulatory regimes and delays in obtaining, or failure to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals which may be required may significantly delay or impact the development of markets, products and sales initiatives and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
While we endeavor to comply with all relevant laws, regulations and guidelines and, to our knowledge, we are in compliance or are in the process of being assessed for compliance with all such laws, regulations and guidelines, any failure to comply with the regulatory requirements applicable to our operations may lead to possible sanctions including the revocation or imposition of additional conditions on licenses to operate our business; the suspension or expulsion from a particular market or jurisdiction or of our key personnel; the imposition of additional or more stringent inspection, testing and reporting requirements; and the imposition of fines and censures. In addition, changes in regulations, more vigorous enforcement thereof or other unanticipated events could require extensive changes to our operations, increase compliance costs or give rise to material liabilities and/or revocation of our licenses and other permits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, governmental authorities may change their administration, application or enforcement procedures at any time, which may adversely impact our ongoing costs relating to regulatory compliance.
We may face difficulties in enforcing its contracts.
Because our contracts involve cannabis and other activities that are not legal under federal law and in some state jurisdictions, we may face difficulties in enforcing its contracts in federal courts and certain state courts. We cannot be assured that it will have a remedy for breach of contract, which could have a material adverse effect on us.
We have limited trademark protection.
We will not be able to register any federal trademarks for its cannabis products. Because producing, manufacturing, processing, possessing, distributing, selling and using cannabis is a crime under the Controlled Substances Act, the Patent and Trademark Office will not permit the registration of any trademark that identifies cannabis products. As a result, we likely will be unable to protect its cannabis product trademarks beyond the geographic areas in which it conducts business. The use of our trademarks outside the states in which it operates by one or more other persons could have a material adverse effect on the value of such trademarks.
We are and may continue to be subject to constraints on marketing our products.
Certain of the states in which we operate have enacted strict regulations regarding marketing and sales activities on cannabis products. There may be restrictions on sales and marketing activities imposed by government regulatory bodies that can hinder the development of the Company’s business and operating results. Restrictions may include regulations that specify what, where and to whom product information and descriptions may appear and/or be advertised. Marketing, advertising, packaging and labeling regulations also vary from state to state, potentially limiting the consistency and scale of consumer branding communication and product education efforts. The regulatory environment in the U.S. limits our ability to compete for market share in a manner similar to other industries. If we are unable to effectively market our products and compete for market share, or if the costs of compliance with government legislation and regulation cannot be absorbed through increased selling prices for our products, our sales and operating results could be adversely affected.
We face risks related to the results of future clinical research.
Research regarding the medical benefits, viability, safety, efficacy, dosing and social acceptance of cannabis or isolated cannabinoids (such as cannabidiol, commonly referred to as CBD and tetrahydrocannabinol, commonly referred to as THC) remains in early stages. There have been relatively few clinical trials on the benefits of cannabis or isolated cannabinoids (such as CBD and THC). Although we believe that various articles, reports and studies support our beliefs regarding the medical benefits, viability, safety, efficacy, dosing and social acceptance of cannabis, future research and clinical trials may prove such statements to be incorrect, or could raise concerns regarding, and perceptions relating to, cannabis. Further, the federal illegality of cannabis and associated limits on our ability to properly fund and conduct research on cannabis and the lack of formal Food and Drug Administration oversight of cannabis, there is limited information about the long-term safety and efficacy of cannabis in is various forms, when combusted or combined with various cannabis and/or non-cannabis derived ingredients and materials or when ingested, inhaled or topically applied. Future research or oversight may reveal negative health and safety effects, which may significantly impact our reputation, operations and financial performance.
Given these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, prospective purchasers of Subordinate Voting Shares should not place undue reliance on such articles and reports. Future research studies and clinical trials may draw opposing conclusions to those stated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or reach negative conclusions regarding the medical benefits, viability, safety, efficacy, dosing, social acceptance or other facts and perceptions related to cannabis, which could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products, with the potential to have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
We are subject to taxation in Canada and the United States.
We are and will continue to be a Canadian corporation as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We are treated as a Canadian resident company (as defined in the Income Tax Act (Canada)) subject to Canadian income taxes. We are also treated as a U.S. corporation subject to U.S. federal income tax pursuant to Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (which we refer to as the “Code”) and are subject to U.S. federal income tax on our worldwide income. As a result, we are subject to taxation both in Canada and the United States, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.
It is unlikely that we will pay any dividends on the Subordinate Voting Shares in the foreseeable future. However, dividends received by shareholders who are residents of Canada for purposes of the Income Tax Act (Canada) will be subject to U.S. withholding tax. Any such dividends may not qualify for a reduced rate of withholding tax under the Canada-United States tax treaty. In addition, a foreign tax credit or a deduction in respect of foreign taxes may not be available.
Dividends received by U.S. shareholders will not be subject to U.S. withholding tax but will be subject to Canadian withholding tax. Dividends paid by us will be characterized as U.S. source income for purposes of the foreign tax credit rules under the Code. Accordingly, U.S. shareholders generally will not be able to claim a credit for any Canadian tax withheld unless, depending on the circumstances, they have an excess foreign tax credit limitation due to other foreign source income that is subject to a low or zero rate of foreign tax.
Dividends received by shareholders that are neither Canadian nor U.S. shareholders will be subject to U.S. withholding tax and will also be subject to Canadian withholding tax. These dividends may not qualify for a reduced rate of U.S. withholding tax under any income tax treaty otherwise applicable to our shareholders, subject to examination of the relevant treaty.
Because the Subordinate Voting Shares are treated as shares of a U.S. domestic corporation, the U.S. gift, estate and generation-skipping transfer tax rules generally apply to a non-U.S. shareholder of Subordinate Voting Shares.
Each shareholder should seek tax advice, based on such shareholder’s particular circumstances, from an independent tax advisor.
Cannabis businesses are subject to unfavorable tax treatment.
Under Section 280E of the IRC, no deduction or credit is allowed for any amount paid or incurred during the taxable year in carrying on business if the business (or the activities which comprise the trade or business) consists of trafficking in controlled substances (within the meaning of Schedules I and II of the Controlled Substances Act). The IRS has applied this provision to cannabis operations, prohibiting them from deducting expenses associated with cannabis businesses. Section 280E may have a lesser impact on cannabis cultivation and manufacturing operations. Accordingly, Section 280E has a significant impact on the operations of cannabis companies and an otherwise profitable business may operate at a loss, after taking into account its U.S. income tax expenses.
Cannabis businesses may be subject to civil asset forfeiture.
Any property owned by participants in the cannabis industry used in the course of conducting such business, or that is the proceeds of such business, could be subject to seizure by law enforcement and subsequent civil asset forfeiture because of the illegality of the cannabis industry under federal law. Even if the owner of the property is never charged with a crime, the property in question could still be seized and subject to an administrative proceeding by which, with minimal due process, it could be subject to forfeiture.
We are subject to proceeds of crime statutes.
We will be subject to a variety of laws that concern money laundering, financial recordkeeping and proceeds of crime. These include: the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by Title III of the USA Patriot Act, the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act (Canada), the rules and regulations under the Criminal Code of Canada and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by governmental authorities in the United States and Canada.
In the event that any of our license agreements, or any proceeds thereof, in the United States were found to be in violation of money laundering legislation or otherwise, such transactions may be viewed as proceeds of crime under one or more of the statutes noted above, or any other applicable legislation. This could have a material adverse effect on us, among other things, could restrict or otherwise jeopardize our ability to declare or pay dividends, effect other distributions or subsequently repatriate such funds back to Canada.
We face security risks.
The business premises of our operating locations are targets for theft. While we have implemented security measures at each location and continue to monitor and improve such security measures, our cultivation, processing and dispensary facilities could be subject to break-ins, robberies and other breaches in security. If there was a breach in security and we fell victim to a robbery or theft, the loss of cannabis plants, cannabis oils, cannabis flowers, cultivation and processing equipment or cash could have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
As our business involves the movement and transfer of cash which is collected from dispensaries or patients/customers and deposited into its bank, there is a risk of theft or robbery during the transport of cash. Our transport, distribution and delivery of finished cannabis goods inventory, including but not limited to wholesale delivery of finished products to retail customers and deliver of finished goods to end consumers and other intermediaries, also is subject to risks of theft and robbery. We have engaged a security firm to provide security in the transport and movement of large amounts of cash and products. Employees sometimes transport cash and/or products and, if requested, may be escorted by armed guards. While we have taken robust steps to prevent theft or robbery of cash during transport, there can be no assurance that there will not be a security breach during the transport and the movement of cash involving the theft of product or cash.
We face exposure to fraudulent or illegal activity.
We face exposure to the risk that employees, independent contractors or consultants may engage in fraudulent or other illegal activities. Misconduct by these parties could be intentional, reckless and/or negligent conduct. There may be disclosure of unauthorized activities that violate government regulations, manufacturing standards, healthcare laws, abuse laws and other financial reporting laws. Further, it may not always be possible for us to identify and deter misconduct by our employees and other third parties, and the precautions taken by us to detect and prevent these activities may not always be effective. As a result, we could face potential penalties and litigation.
We are a holding company.
We are a holding company and essentially all of our assets are the capital stock of our subsidiaries in our 12 markets, including California, Colorado, Connecticut, Florida, Illinois, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania. As a result, investors in the Company are subject to the risks attributable to its subsidiaries. As a holding company, we conduct substantially all of our business through our subsidiaries, which generate substantially all of our revenues. Consequently, our cash flows and ability to complete current or desirable future enhancement opportunities are dependent on the earnings of our subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to us. The ability of these entities to pay dividends and other distributions
depends on their operating results and is subject to applicable laws and regulations, which require that solvency and capital standards be maintained by the subsidiaries and contractual restrictions are contained in the instruments governing their debt. In the event of a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of any of our material subsidiaries, holders of indebtedness and trade creditors may be entitled to payment of their claims from the assets of those subsidiaries before us.
Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective, and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business.
We are subject to various SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements. We have incurred and will continue to incur expenses and, to a lesser extent, diversion of our management’s time in our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding internal controls over financial reporting. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm when required, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retrospective changes to our consolidated financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Subordinate Voting Shares
Material acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions involve a number of risks for us.
Material acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions involve a number of risks for us, including: (i) potential disruption of our ongoing business; (ii) distraction of management; (iii) increased financial leverage; (iv) the anticipated benefits and cost savings of those transactions may not be realized or may take longer to realize than anticipated; (v) increased scope and complexity of our operations; and (vi) loss or reduction of control over certain of our assets.
Additionally, we may issue additional Subordinate Voting Shares in connection with such transactions, which would dilute a shareholder’s holdings in the Company.
The presence of one or more material liabilities of an acquired company that are known, but believed to be immaterial, or unknown to us at the time of acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition. A strategic transaction may result in a significant change in the nature of our business, operations and strategy. In addition, we may encounter unforeseen obstacles or costs in implementing a strategic transaction or integrating any acquired business into our operations.
We may invest in companies which may not be able to meet anticipated development targets or be successful in the future.
We may make investments in companies with no significant sources of operating cash flow and no revenue from operations, that are in early stages of development, or that have high-risk profiles. Our investments in such companies will be subject to risks and uncertainties that new companies with no or limited operating history may face. In particular, there is a risk that our investment in these companies will not be able to meet anticipated development targets or will not generate revenue at all. If these companies underperform or fail to continue to develop, their businesses may fail, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
Our use of joint ventures may expose us to risks associated with jointly owned investments.
We currently operate parts of our business through joint ventures with other companies, and we may enter into additional joint ventures and strategic alliances in the future. Joint venture investments may involve risks not otherwise present in investments made solely by us, including: (i) we may not control the joint ventures; (ii) our joint venture partners may not agree to distributions that we believe are appropriate; (iii) where we do not have substantial decision-making authority, we may experience impasses or disputes with our joint venture partners on certain decisions, which could require us to expend additional resources to resolve such impasses or disputes, including litigation or arbitration; (iv) our joint venture partners may become insolvent or bankrupt, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfil their obligations as a joint venture partner; (v) the arrangements governing our joint ventures may contain certain conditions or milestone events that may never be satisfied or achieved; (vi) our joint venture partners may have business or economic interests that are inconsistent with ours and may take actions contrary to our interests; (vii) we may suffer losses as a result of actions taken by our joint venture partners with respect to our joint venture investments; and (viii) it may be difficult for us to exit a joint venture if an impasse arises or if we desire to sell our interest for any reason. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may, in certain circumstances, be liable for the actions of our joint venture partners.
There can be no assurance that our current and future strategic alliances or expansions of scope of existing relationships will have a beneficial impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We currently have, and may in the future enter into, additional strategic alliances with third parties that we believe will complement or augment our existing business. Our ability to complete strategic alliances is dependent upon, and may be limited by, the availability of suitable candidates and capital. In addition, strategic alliances could present unforeseen integration obstacles or costs, may not enhance our business and may involve risks that could adversely affect us, including significant amounts of management time that may be diverted from operations in order to pursue and complete such transactions or maintain such strategic alliances. Future strategic alliances could result in the incurrence of additional debt, costs and contingent liabilities, and there can be no assurance that future strategic alliances will achieve, or that our existing strategic alliances will continue to achieve, the expected benefits to our business or that we will be able to consummate future strategic alliances on satisfactory terms, if at all. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Competition for the acquisition and leasing of properties suitable for the cultivation, production and sale of medical and adult use cannabis may impede our ability to make acquisitions or increase the cost of these acquisitions, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.
We compete for the acquisition of properties suitable for the cultivation, production and sale of medical and adult use cannabis with entities engaged in agriculture and real estate investment activities, including corporate agriculture companies, cultivators, producers and sellers of cannabis. These competitors may prevent us from acquiring and leasing desirable properties, may cause an increase in the price we must pay for properties or may result in us having to lease our properties on less favorable terms than we expect. Our competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do and may be willing to pay more for certain assets or may be willing to accept more risk than we believe can be prudently managed. In particular, larger companies may enjoy significant competitive advantages that result from, among other things, a lower cost of capital and enhanced operating efficiencies. Our competitors may also adopt transaction structures similar to ours, which would decrease our competitive advantage in offering flexible transaction terms. In addition, due to a number of factors, including but not limited to potential greater clarity of the laws and regulations governing medical use cannabis by state and federal governments, the number of entities and the amount of funds competing for suitable investment properties may increase, resulting in increased demand and increased prices paid for these properties. If we pay higher prices for properties or enter into leases for such properties on less favorable terms than we
expect, our profitability and ability to generate cash flow and make distributions to our stockholders may decrease. Increased competition for properties may also preclude us from acquiring those properties that would generate attractive returns to us.
Our reputation and ability to do business may be negatively impacted by the improper conduct by our business partners, employees or agents.
We depend on third-party suppliers to produce and timely ship our orders. Products purchased from our suppliers are resold to our customers. These suppliers could fail to produce products to our specifications or quality standards and may not deliver units on a timely basis. Any changes in our suppliers to resolve production issues could impact our ability to fulfill orders and could also disrupt our business due to delays in finding new suppliers.
Furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners in violation of U.S. federal or state or local laws. Any improper acts or allegations could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civic and criminal monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees.
We face risks due to industry immaturity or limited comparable, competitive or established industry best practices.
As a relatively new industry, there are not many established operators in the medical and adult use cannabis industries whose business models we can follow or build upon. Similarly, there is no or limited information about comparable companies available for potential investors to review in making a decision about whether to invest in us.
Shareholders and investors should consider, among other factors, our prospects for success in light of the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies, like us, that are in their early stages. For example, unanticipated expenses and problems or technical difficulties may occur, which may result in material delays in the operation of our business. We may fail to successfully address these risks and uncertainties or successfully implement our operating strategies. If we fail to do so, it could materially harm our business to the point of having to cease operations and could impair the value of the Subordinate Voting Shares to the extent that investors may lose their entire investments.
We face risks related to our products.
We have committed and expect to continue committing significant resources and capital to develop and market existing products and new products and services. These products are relatively untested in the marketplace, and we cannot assure shareholders and investors that we will achieve market acceptance for these products, or other new products and services that we may offer in the future. Moreover, these and other new products and services may be subject to significant competition with offerings by new and existing competitors in the business. In addition, new products and services may pose a variety of challenges and require us to attract additional qualified employees. The failure to successfully develop and market these new products and services could seriously harm our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
We are dependent on the popularity of consumer acceptance of our brand portfolio.
Our ability to generate revenue and be successful in the implementation of our business plan is dependent on consumer acceptance of and demand for our products. Acceptance of our products depends on several factors, including availability, cost, ease of use, familiarity of use, convenience, effectiveness, safety and reliability. If these customers do not accept our products, or if such products fail to adequately meet customers’ needs and expectations, our ability to continue generating revenues could be reduced.
The Company’s business is subject to the risks inherent in agricultural operations.
The Company’s business involves the growing of cannabis, an agricultural product. The Company’s business is subject to the risks inherent in the agricultural business, such as insects, plant diseases and similar agricultural risks. Although the Company’s cultivation is substantially completed indoors under climate control, some cultivation is completed outdoors, and there can be no assurance that natural elements will not have a material adverse effect on any future production.
The Company may be adversely impacted by rising or volatile energy costs.
The Company’s cannabis growing operations consume considerable energy, which makes it vulnerable to rising energy costs. Accordingly, rising or volatile energy costs may adversely affect the business of the Company and its ability to operate profitably.
The Company may encounter unknown environmental risks.
There can be no assurance that the Company will not encounter hazardous conditions, such as asbestos or lead, at the sites of the real estate used to operate its businesses, which may delay the development of its businesses. Upon encountering a hazardous condition, work at the facilities of the Company may be suspended. If the Company receives notice of a hazardous condition, it may be required to correct the condition prior to continuing construction. If additional hazardous conditions were present, it would likely delay construction and may require significant expenditure of the Company’s resources to correct the conditions. Such conditions could have a material impact on the investment returns of the Company.
We face risks related to our information technology systems, and potential cyber-attacks and security breaches.
Our operations depend, in part, on how well we and our suppliers protect networks, equipment, information technology, which we refer to as IT, systems and software against damage and threats, including, but not limited to, cable cuts, damage to physical plants, natural disasters, intentional damage and destruction, fire, power loss, hacking, computer viruses, vandalism and theft. Our operations also depend on the timely maintenance and replacement of network equipment, IT systems and software, as well as pre-emptive expenses to mitigate associated risks. Given the nature of our products and the lack of legal availability outside of channels approved by the federal government, as well as the concentration of inventory in our facilities, there remains a risk of shrinkages, as well as theft. If there was a breach in security and we fell victim to theft or robbery, the loss of cannabis plants, cannabis oils, cannabis flowers and cultivations and processing equipment, or if there was a failure in information systems, it could adversely affect the our reputation and business continuity.
Additionally, we may store and collect personal information about customers and are responsible for protecting that information from privacy breaches that may occur through procedural or process failure, IT malfunction or deliberate unauthorized intrusions. Any such theft or privacy breach would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
We are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the United States (such as the California Consumer Privacy Act (which became effective on January 1, 2020) and other jurisdictions relating to the collection, processing, storage, transfer and use of personal data. Our ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting our business subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require us to notify regulators and customers, employees and other individuals of a data security breach. Evolving compliance and operational requirements under the California Consumer Privacy Act and the privacy laws, rules and regulations of other jurisdictions in which we operate impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. In addition, non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities and/or significant fines, could negatively impact our reputation and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results.
We face risks related to our insurance coverage and uninsurable risks.
Our business is subject to a number of risks and hazards generally, including adverse environmental conditions, accidents, labor disputes, destruction from civil unrest and changes in the regulatory environment. Such occurrences could result in damage to assets, personal injury or death, environmental damage, delays in operations, monetary losses and possible legal liability.
Although we intend to continue to maintain insurance to protect against certain risks in such amounts as we consider to be reasonable, our insurance will not cover all the potential risks associated with our operations. We may also be unable to maintain insurance to cover these risks at economically feasible premiums. Insurance coverage may not continue to be available or may not be adequate to cover any resulting liability. Moreover, insurance against risks such as environmental pollution or other hazards encountered in our operations is not generally available on acceptable terms. We might also become subject to liability for pollution or other hazards which it may not be insured against or which we may elect not to insure against because of premium costs or other reasons. Losses from these events may cause us to incur significant costs that could have a material adverse effect upon our financial performance and results of operations.
We are dependent on key inputs, suppliers and skilled labor.
The marijuana business is dependent on a number of key inputs and their related costs, including raw materials and supplies related to growing operations, as well as electricity, water and other local utilities. Any significant interruption or negative change in the availability or economics of the supply chain for key inputs, such as the raw material cost of cannabis, or natural or other disruptions to power or other utility systems, could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects. Some of these inputs may only be available from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers. If a sole source supplier was to go out of business, we might be unable to find a replacement for such source in a timely manner, or at all. If a sole source supplier were to be acquired by a competitor, that competitor may elect not to sell to us in the future. Any inability to secure required supplies and services, or to do so on appropriate terms, could have a materially adverse impact on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition. We aim to provide our vendor base with annual projections so that our vendors can better ensure a steady supply of raw materials and packaging. We check in with our vendors at least once quarterly to update them to relevant real time changes in our annual plan. For most important raw materials and packaging, we aim to have both a primary vendor supplier and a secondary vendor supplier to ensure redundancy. Further, due to the uncertain regulatory landscape for regulating cannabis in the U.S., our third party suppliers, manufacturers and contractors may elect, at any time, to decline or withdraw services necessary for ours operations. There is also a risk that a regulatory body could impose certain restrictions on such third party’s ability to operate in the United States. Any significant interruption or negative change in our business relations with such third parties could materially impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects.
Our ability to compete and grow will be dependent on us having access, at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, to skilled labor, equipment, parts and components. No assurances can be given that we will be successful in maintaining our required supply of skilled labor, equipment, parts and components. This could have an adverse effect on our financial results.
We must attract and maintain key personnel or our business will fail.
Our success is dependent upon the ability, expertise, judgment, discretion and good faith of our senior management and key personnel. We compete with other companies both within and outside the cannabis industry to recruit and retain competent employees. If we cannot maintain qualified employees to meet the needs of our anticipated growth, our business and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.
Our sales are difficult to forecast.
As a result of recent and ongoing regulatory and policy changes in the medical and adult use cannabis industries and unreliable levels of market supply, the market data available is limited and unreliable. We must
rely largely on our own market research to forecast sales, as detailed forecasts are not generally obtainable from other sources in the states in which our business operates. Additionally, any market research and our projections of estimated total retail sales, demographics, demand and similar consumer research, are based on assumptions from limited and unreliable market data. A failure in the demand for our products to materialize as a result of competition, technological change or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We may be subject to growth-related risks.
We may be subject to growth-related risks, including capacity constraints and pressure on our internal systems and controls. Our ability to manage growth effectively will require us to continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our inability to deal with this growth may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, revenue, results of operation and financial condition.
We may be subject to litigation.
We may become party to litigation from time to time in the ordinary course of business, which could adversely affect our business. Should any litigation in which we become involved be determined against us, such a decision could adversely affect our ability to continue operating and the market price for the Subordinate Voting Shares and could potentially use significant resources. Even if we are involved in litigation and win, litigation can redirect significant resources of Green Thumb Industries Inc. and/or its subsidiaries.
We face an inherent risk of product liability claims.
As a distributor of products designed to be ingested by humans, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims, regulatory action and litigation if our products are alleged to have failed to meet expected standards or to have caused significant loss or injury. In addition, the sale of our products involves the risk of injury to consumers due to tampering by unauthorized third parties or product contamination. Previously unknown adverse reactions resulting from human consumption of our products alone or in combination with other medications or substances could occur. We may be subject to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products caused injury, illness or death, include inadequate instructions for use or include inadequate warnings concerning possible side effects or interactions with other substances. As an agricultural product, the quality of cannabis is inherently variable, and consumers may raise claims that our quality control or labeling processes have not sufficiently ensured that our grown and manufactured processes are sufficient to meet expected standards. A product liability claim or regulatory action against us could result in increased costs, could adversely affect our reputation with our clients and consumers generally and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain or maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms or with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. Such insurance is expensive and may not be available in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. The inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage on reasonable terms or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our potential products.
We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could subject us to significant liabilities and other costs.
Our success may depend on our ability to use and develop new extraction technologies, recipes, know-how and new strains of marijuana without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. We cannot assure that third parties will not assert intellectual property claims against us. We are subject to additional risks if entities licensing intellectual property to us do not have adequate rights to the licensed materials. If third parties assert copyright or patent infringement or violation of other intellectual property rights against us, we will be required to defend ourselves in litigation or administrative proceedings, which can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to
significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, require us to pay ongoing royalties or subject us to injunctions that may prohibit the development and operation of our applications.
Our products may be subject to product recalls.
Manufacturers, distributors and retailers of products are sometimes subject to the recall or return of their products for a variety of reasons, including product defects, such as contamination, unintended harmful side effects or interactions with other substances, packaging safety and inadequate or inaccurate labeling disclosure. If any of our products or products sold at our retail stores are recalled due to an alleged product defect or for any other reason, we could be required to incur the unexpected expense of the recall and any legal proceedings that might arise in connection with the recall. We may lose a significant amount of sales and may not be able to replace those sales at an acceptable margin, if at all. In addition, a product recall may require significant management attention. Although we have detailed procedures in place for testing our products and requiring compliant labeling of third-party products we sell, there can be no assurance that any quality, potency or contamination problems will be detected in time to avoid unforeseen product recalls, regulatory action or lawsuits. Additionally, if any of our brands were subject to recall, our image and the image of that brand could be harmed. A recall for any of the foregoing reasons could lead to decreased demand for our products and could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations and financial condition. Additionally, product recalls may lead to increased scrutiny of our operations by the Food and Drug Administration, or other regulatory agencies, requiring further management attention and potential legal fees and other expenses.
We may face unfavorable publicity or consumer perception.
Management believes the medical and adult use cannabis industry is highly dependent upon consumer perception regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of the cannabis produced. Consumer perception of our products may be significantly influenced by scientific research or findings, regulatory investigations, litigation, media attention and other publicity regarding the consumption of cannabis products. There can be no assurance that future scientific research, findings, regulatory proceedings, litigation, media attention or other research findings or publicity will be favorable to the cannabis market or any particular product, or consistent with earlier publicity. Future research reports, findings, regulatory proceedings, litigation, media attention or other publicity that is perceived as less favorable than, or questions earlier research reports, findings or publicity could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products. Our dependence upon consumer perceptions means that such adverse reports, whether or not accurate or with merit, could ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, adverse publicity reports or other media attention regarding the safety, efficacy and quality of cannabis in general, or our products specifically, or associating the consumption of cannabis with illness or other negative effects or events, could have such a material adverse effect. Although the Company uses quality control processes and procedures to ensure our consumer packaged goods meet our standards, a failure or alleged failure of such processes and procedures could result in negative consumer perception of our products or legal claims against us. Adverse publicity reports or other media attention could arise even if the adverse effects associated with such products resulted from consumers’ failure to consume such products appropriately or as directed.
Certain of our products are e-vapor or “vape” products. The use of vape products and vaping may pose health risks. According to the Centers for Disease Control, vape products may contain ingredients that are known to be toxic to humans and may contain other ingredients that may not be safe. Because clinical studies about the safety and efficacy of vape products have not been submitted to the Food and Drug Administration, consumers currently have no way of knowing whether they are safe for their intended use or what types or concentrations of potentially harmful chemicals or by-products are found in these products. It is also uncertain what implications the use of vape or other inhaled products, such as flower that is smoked, may have on respiratory illnesses such as that caused by the Coronavirus Disease 2019, which we refer to as COVID-19. Adverse findings, regulatory investigations, litigation, media attention and other publicity regarding the consumption of vape or other inhaled products, including adverse publicity regarding underage use of vape or other inhaled products, may adversely affect the Company.
We face intense competition.
We face intense competition from other companies, some of which have longer operating histories and more financial resources and manufacturing, retail and marketing experience than us. Increased competition by larger and better financed competitors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Because of the early stage of the industry in which we operate, we face additional competition from new entrants. If the number of consumers of cannabis in the states in which we operate our business increases, the demand for products and qualified talent will increase and we expect that competition will become more intense, as current and future competitors begin to offer an increasing number of diversified products. To remain competitive, we will require a continued high level of investment in research and development, marketing, sales, talent retention and client support. We may not have sufficient resources to maintain research and development, marketing, sales and client support efforts on a competitive basis, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of our operations.
A decline in the price of the Subordinate Voting Shares could affect our ability to raise further working capital and adversely impact our ability to continue operations.
A prolonged decline in the price of the Subordinate Voting Shares could result in a reduction in the liquidity of the Subordinate Voting Shares and a reduction in our ability to raise capital. Because a significant portion of our operations have been and will be financed through the sale of equity securities, a decline in the price of our common stock could be especially detrimental to our liquidity and our operations. Such reductions may force us to reallocate funds from other planned uses and may have a significant negative effect on our business plan and operations, including our ability to develop new products and continue our current operations. If our stock price declines, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital or generate funds from operations sufficient to meet our obligations. If we are unable to raise sufficient capital in the future, we may not be able to have the resources to continue our normal operations.
We may have increased labor costs based on union activity.
Labor unions are working to organize workforces in the cannabis industry in general. Currently, there is no labor organization that has been recognized as a representative of our employees. However, it is possible that certain retail and/or manufacturing locations will be organized in the future, which could lead to work stoppages or increased labor costs and adversely affect our business, profitability and our ability to reinvest into the growth of our business. We cannot predict how stable our relationships with U.S. labor organizations would be or whether we would be able to meet any unions’ requirements without impacting our financial condition. Labor unions may also limit our flexibility in dealing with our workforce. Work stoppages and instability in our union relationships could delay the production and sale of our products, which could strain relationships with customers and cause a loss of revenues which would adversely affect our operations.
We are subject to general economic risks.
Our operations could be affected by the economic context should the unemployment level, interest rates or inflation reach levels that influence consumer trends and spending and, consequently, impact our sales and profitability.
We may be negatively impacted by challenging global economic conditions.
Our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow may be negatively impacted by challenging global economic conditions. For example and as discussed in more detail below, in early 2020, the U.S and other world economies have experienced turmoil due to outbreaks of COVID-19 and its variants, which has resulted in global economic uncertainty.
A global economic slowdown would cause disruptions and extreme volatility in global financial markets, increased rates of default and bankruptcy and declining consumer and business confidence, which can lead to decreased levels of consumer spending. These macroeconomic developments could negatively impact our business, which depends on the general economic environment and levels of consumer spending. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our existing customers or attract new customers, or we may be forced to reduce the price of our products. We are unable to predict the likelihood of the occurrence, duration or severity of such disruptions in the credit and financial markets or adverse global economic conditions. Any general or market-specific economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow.
Additionally, the U.S. has imposed and may impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs, retaliatory or trade protection measures or other restrictions or regulations and may adversely adjust prevailing quota, duty or tariff levels, which can affect both the materials that we use to package our products and the sale of finished products. For example, the tariffs imposed by the U.S. on materials from China are impacting materials that we import for use in packaging in the U.S. Measures to reduce the impact of tariff increases or trade restrictions, including geographical diversification of our sources of supply, adjustments in packaging design and fabrication or increased prices, could increase our costs, delay our time to market and/or decrease sales. Other governmental action related to tariffs or international trade agreements has the potential to adversely impact demand for our products and our costs, customers, suppliers and global economic conditions and cause higher volatility in financial markets. While we actively review existing and proposed measures to seek to assess the impact of them on our business, changes in tariff rates, import duties and other new or augmented trade restrictions could have a number of negative impacts on our business, including higher consumer prices and reduced demand for our products and higher input costs.
We are subject to risks arising from epidemic diseases, such as the recent outbreak of the COVID-19 illness.
The recent outbreak of the COVID-19 illness and its variants, which has been declared by the World Health Organization to be a “pandemic” has spread across the globe and is impacting worldwide economic activity. A public health epidemic, including COVID-19, or the fear of a potential pandemic, poses the risk that we or our employees, contractors, suppliers, and other partners may be prevented from conducting business activities for an indefinite period of time, including due to shutdowns or other preventative measures taken to limit the potential impact from a public health epidemic that may be requested or mandated by governmental authorities.
Our priorities during the COVID-19 pandemic are protecting the health and safety of its employees and our customers, following the recommended actions of government and health authorities. In the future, the pandemic may cause reduced demand for our products and services if, for example, the pandemic results in a recessionary economic environment. Our operations are currently ongoing as the cultivation, processing and sale of cannabis products is currently considered an essential business by all states in which we operate with respect to all customers. Our ability to continue to operate without any significant negative operational impact from the COVID-19 pandemic will in part depend on our ability to protect our employees, customers and supply chain, as well as our continued designation as “essential” in states where we do business that currently or in the future impose restrictions on business operations.
While it is not possible at this time to estimate the impact that COVID-19 (or any other actual or potential pandemic) could have on our business, the continued spread of COVID-19 (or any other actual or potential pandemic) and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected could disrupt the supply chain and the manufacture or shipment or sale of our products and adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. It could also affect the health and availability of our workforce at our facilities, as well as those of our suppliers, particularly those in China and India. The COVID-19 outbreak, or any of its variants, and mitigation measures may also have an adverse impact on global economic conditions which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak impacts our
results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including new information that may emerge concerning the severity of the virus and the actions to contain its impact. Because cannabis remains federally illegal, it is possible that we would not be eligible to participate in any government relief programs (such as federal loans or access to capital) resulting from COVID-19 or any other actual or potential pandemic.
Risks Related to Our Securities
A return on our securities is not guaranteed.
There is no guarantee that our Subordinate Voting Shares will earn any positive return in the short term or long term. A holding of Subordinate Voting Shares is speculative and involves a high degree of risk and should be undertaken only by holders whose financial resources are sufficient to enable them to assume such risks and who have no need for immediate liquidity in their investment. A holding of Subordinate Voting Shares is appropriate only for holders who have the capacity to absorb a loss of some or all of their holdings.
We may be affected by currency fluctuations.
We face exposure to significant currency fluctuations because of our present operations in the U.S. Recent events in the global financial markets have been coupled with increased volatility in the currency markets. All or substantially all of our revenue is earned in U.S. dollars, but a portion of our operating expenses are incurred in Canadian dollars. We do not have currency hedging arrangements in place and there is no expectation that we will put any currency hedging arrangements in place in the future. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Canadian dollar may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or results of operations.
Our voting control is concentrated.
Our senior executives exercise a significant majority of the voting power with respect to our outstanding shares because of the Super Voting Shares that they hold. These officials include Benjamin Kovler, our Founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Grossman, our Head of Capital Markets, and Anthony Georgiadis, our Chief Financial Officer. Subordinate Voting Shares are entitled to one vote per share, Multiple Voting Shares are entitled to 100 votes per share, and Super Voting Shares are entitled to up to 1,000 votes per share. As a result, Mr. Kovler, Mr. Grossman and Mr. Georgiadis potentially have the ability to control the outcome of matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and any arrangement or sale of all or substantially all of our assets.
This concentrated control could delay, defer or prevent a change of control, arrangement or merger involving sale of all or substantially all of our assets that our other shareholders may support. Conversely, this concentrated control could allow the holders of the Super Voting Shares to consummate such a transaction our other shareholders do not support. In addition, the holders of the Super Voting Shares may make long-term strategic investment decisions and take risks that may not be successful and/or may seriously harm our business.
Our capital structure and voting control may cause unpredictability.
Although other Canadian-based companies have dual class or multiple voting share structures, given our unique capital structure and the concentration of voting control that is held by the holders of the Super Voting Shares, this structure and control could result in a lower trading price for or greater fluctuations in the trading price of our Subordinate Voting Shares, adverse publicity to us or other adverse consequences.
Additional issuances of Super Voting Shares, Multiple Voting Shares or Subordinate Voting Shares may result in dilution.
We may issue additional equity or convertible debt securities in the future, which may dilute an existing shareholder’s holdings. Our articles permit the issuance of an unlimited number of Super Voting Shares, Multiple
Voting Shares and Subordinate Voting Shares, and existing shareholders will have no pre-emptive rights in connection with such further issuances. Our board of directors has discretion to determine the price and the terms of further issuances, and such terms could include rights, preferences and privileges superior to those existing holders of Subordinate Voting Shares. Moreover, additional Subordinate Voting Shares will be issued by us on the conversion of the Multiple Voting Shares and Super Voting Shares in accordance with their terms. To the extent holders of our options or other convertible securities convert or exercise their securities and sell Subordinate Voting Shares they receive, the trading price of the Subordinate Voting Shares may decrease due to the additional amount of Subordinate Voting Shares available in the market. We cannot predict the size or nature of future issuances or the effect that future issuances and sales of Subordinate Voting Shares will have on the market price of the Subordinate Voting Shares. Issuances of a substantial number of additional Subordinate Voting Shares, or the perception that such issuances could occur, may adversely affect prevailing market prices for the Subordinate Voting Shares. With any additional issuance of Subordinate Voting Shares, investors will suffer dilution to their voting power and economic interest in us.
Sales of substantial amounts of Subordinate Voting Shares may have an adverse effect on the market price of the Subordinate Voting Shares.
Sales of substantial amounts of Subordinate Voting Shares, or the availability of such securities for sale, could adversely affect the prevailing market prices for the Subordinate Voting Shares. A decline in the market prices of the Subordinate Voting Shares could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of securities should it desire to do so.
The market price for the Subordinate Voting Shares may be volatile.
The market price for securities of cannabis companies generally are likely to be volatile. In addition, the market price for the Subordinate Voting Shares has been and may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to:
•
actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations;
•
recommendations by securities research analysts;
•
changes in the economic performance or market valuations of companies in the industry in which we operate;
•
addition or departure of our executive officers and other key personnel;
•
release or expiration of transfer restrictions on outstanding Subordinate Voting Shares;
•
sales or perceived sales of additional Subordinate Voting Shares;
•
operating and financial performance that varies from the expectations of management, securities analysts and investors;
•
regulatory changes affecting our industry generally and its business and operations both domestically and abroad;
•
announcements of developments and other material events by us or our competitors;
•
fluctuations in the costs of vital production materials and services;
•
changes in global financial markets, global economies and general market conditions, such as interest rates and pharmaceutical product price volatility;
•
significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors;
•
operating and share price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us or from a lack of market comparable companies; and
•
news reports relating to trends, concerns, technological or competitive developments, regulatory changes and other related issues in our industry or target markets.
Financial markets have at times historically experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that: (i) have particularly affected the market prices of equity securities of companies and (ii) have often been unrelated to the operating performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. Accordingly, the market price of the Subordinate Voting Shares from time to time may decline even if our operating results, underlying asset values or prospects have not changed. Additionally, these factors, as well as other related factors, may cause decreases in asset values that may result in impairment losses to us. There can be no assurance that further fluctuations in price and volume of equity securities will not occur. If increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, our operations could be adversely impacted, and the trading price of the Subordinate Voting Shares may be materially adversely affected.
If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports or publish misleading, inaccurate or unfavorable research about us, our business or our market, our stock price and trading volume could decline.
The trading market for our Subordinate Voting Shares will be influenced by the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our Corporation, the trading price and volume of our shares would likely be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our shares or publishes inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, or provides more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our shares could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.
We face liquidity risks.
Our Subordinate Voting Shares currently trade on the CSE and on over-the-counter markets in the U.S. We cannot predict at what prices the Subordinate Voting Shares will continue to trade, and there is no assurance that an active trading market will be sustained.
Our Subordinate Voting Shares do not currently trade on any U.S. securities exchange. In the event our Subordinate Voting Shares do trade on any U.S. securities exchange, we cannot predict at what prices the Subordinate Voting Shares will trade and there is no assurance that an active trading market will develop or be sustained. There is a significant liquidity risk associated with an investment in us.
We are subject to increased costs as a result of being a public company in Canada and the United States.
As a public company in Canada and the United States, we are subject to the reporting requirements, rules and regulations under the applicable Canadian and American securities laws and rules of stock exchanges on which the Company’s securities may be listed. The requirements of existing and potential future rules and regulations will increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We face costs of maintaining a public listing.
As a public company, there are costs associated with legal, accounting and other expenses related to regulatory compliance. Securities legislation and the rules and policies of the CSE require listed companies to, among other things, adopt corporate governance and related practices, and to continuously prepare and disclose material information, all of which add to a company’s legal and financial compliance costs. We may also elect to devote greater resources than it otherwise would have on communication and other activities typically considered important by publicly traded companies.
We do not intend to pay dividends on our common shares and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common shares.
We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our Subordinate Voting Shares and do not currently intend to do so in the foreseeable future. We currently anticipate that we will retain future earnings, if materialized, for the development, operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate declaring or paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Therefore, the success of an investment in our common shares will depend upon any future appreciation in their value. There is no guarantee that our common shares will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which you purchased them.
We are eligible to be treated as an “emerging growth company” as defined in the JOBS Act, and the Company cannot be certain if the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make the Subordinate Voting Shares less attractive to investors.
We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act. For as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including (1) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, (2) reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in this document and periodic reports and proxy statements, and (3) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an emerging growth company for up to five years, although circumstances could cause us to lose that status earlier, including if the market value of the Subordinate Voting Shares held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of June 30, 2021, or if we have total annual gross revenue of $1.07 billion or more during any fiscal year before that time, in which case the Company would no longer be an emerging growth company as of the following December 31. Additionally, if we issue more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt during any three-year period before June 30, 2021, we would cease to be an emerging growth company immediately. We cannot predict if investors will find the Subordinate Voting Shares less attractive because we may rely on these exemptions. If some investors find the Subordinate Voting Shares less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for the Subordinate Voting Shares, and the stock price may be more volatile.
Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can also delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies.
ITEM 1B.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 32118ce18db9463d0517bb55cd5b8281
- Approx. Length: 32846 characters