# Context

Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.
(a)Financial Statement Schedules
See the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements at page of this report.
The following financial statement schedule is included herein at page of this report:
Schedule III - Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
(b)Exhibits
EXHIBIT INDEX
The exhibits below are included, or incorporated by reference, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 (and are numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K). References in the exhibits below to American Realty Capital New York City REIT, Inc. reflect exhibits dated prior to our name change to New York City REIT, Inc. effective March 13, 2019.
______
* Filed herewith.
(1)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 14, 2018.
(2)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 15, 2019.
(3)Filed as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 19, 2020.
(4)Filed as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 5, 2020.
(5)Filed as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 18, 2020.
(6)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 19, 2018.
(7)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 14, 2014.
(8)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Tender Offer Statement on Schedule TO filed with the SEC on June 15, 2018.
(9)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on November 13, 2017.
(10)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Pre-Effective Amendment No. 1 to Post-Effective Amendment No. 4 to Form S-11 filed with the SEC on January 7, 2015.
(11)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 8, 2015.
(12)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 12, 2015.
(13)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on August 12, 2016.
(14)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 10, 2017.
(15)Filed as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on October 1, 2020.
(16)Filed as an exhibit to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 19, 2019.
(17)Filed as an exhibit to our Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 26, 2021.
Item 16. Form 10-K Summary.
Not applicable.
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 29th day of March 2021.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
By:/s/ EDWARD M. WEIL
EDWARD M. WEIL
EXECUTIVE CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, PRESIDENT AND SECRETARY
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of New York City REIT, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of New York City REIT, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, of changes in equity and of cash flows for the years then ended, including the related notes and financial statement schedule for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 listed in the accompanying index (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We also have audited the adjustments to the 2018 consolidated financial statements to retrospectively apply the reverse stock split as described in Note 1. In our opinion, such adjustments are appropriate and have been properly applied. We were not engaged to audit, review, or apply any procedures to the 2018 consolidated financial statements of the Company other than with respect to the adjustments and, accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance on the 2018 consolidated financial statements taken as a whole.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Equity-Based Compensation - Multi-Year Outperformance Award
As described in Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements, in July 2020, the Company granted a performance-based equity award to New York City Advisors, LLC (the “Advisor”). Initially, the award was in the form of a single Master LTIP Unit. It was automatically converted on September 30, 2020 (the “Effective Date”) into 4,012,841 LTIP Units (the “LTIP Units”). Half of the LTIP Units are eligible to be earned if the Company achieves certain total stockholder returns (“TSR”) measured on an absolute basis for the performance period. Half of the LTIP Units are eligible to be earned as the Company’s TSR exceeds the average TSR of a peer group for the performance period. Management utilized a third-party valuation specialist to value the award at $25.8 million on the Effective Date, using a Monte Carlo valuation model which included significant assumptions such as stock price volatility, dividend yield, and correlation estimate. The Company incurred $3.8 million in stock-based compensation expense related to this award during the year ended December 31, 2020.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the equity-based compensation for the multi-year outperformance award is a critical audit matter are (i) the significant judgment by management in determining the accounting for the award and in developing the fair value measurement of the award as of the Effective Date; (ii) a high degree of auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in evaluating management’s accounting for the award and the significant assumptions used in the fair value measurement of the award related to stock price volatility, dividend yield and correlation estimate; and (iii) the audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included, among others (i) evaluating management’s determination of the grant date, equity classified treatment of the award, grant price, market performance targets and vesting terms by agreeing information to source documents, such as compensation meeting minutes and the multi-year outperformance award agreement, and (ii) the involvement of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge to assist in in developing an independent estimate of the fair value measurement of the award as of the Effective Date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. Developing the independent estimate involved testing the completeness and accuracy of the data used in measuring the award and independently developing assumptions related to stock price volatility, dividend yield and correlation estimate.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
New York, New York
March 29, 2021
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2019.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors
New York City REIT, Inc.:
Opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements
We have audited, before the effects of the retrospective adjustments for the effects of the reverse stock split described in Note 1, the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, changes in equity, and cash flows of New York City REIT, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) for the year ended December 31, 2018, and the related notes for the year ended December 31, 2018 (collectively, the consolidated financial statements). The 2018 consolidated financial statements before the effects of the adjustments described in Note 1 are not presented herein. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements, before the effects of the adjustments to retrospectively apply the change in accounting described in Note 1, present fairly, in all material respects, the results of the Company’s operations and its cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2018, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We were not engaged to audit, review, or apply any procedures to the retrospective adjustments for the effects of the reverse stock split described in Note 1 and affecting share and per share amounts in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, changes in equity, Note 7, and Note 11 and, accordingly, we do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance about whether such adjustments are appropriate and have been properly applied. Those adjustments were audited by other auditors.
Basis for Opinion
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audit included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audit also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
/s/ KPMG LLP
We served as the Company’s auditor from 2015 to 2019.
New York, New York
March 15, 2019
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands, except share and per share data)
_____
(1) Retroactively adjusted for the effects of the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
(In thousands, except share and per share data)
_____
(1) Retroactively adjusted for the effects of the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
(In thousands, except share data)
_____
(1) Retroactively adjusted for the effects of the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1).
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Note 1 - Organization
The Company is an externally managed real estate investment trust for U.S. federal income tax purposes (“REIT”) that invests primarily in office properties located exclusively within the five boroughs of New York City, primarily Manhattan. The Company has also purchased certain real estate assets that accompany office properties, including retail spaces and amenities, and may purchase hospitality assets, residential assets and other property types also located exclusively within the five boroughs of New York City. As of December 31, 2020, the Company owned eight properties consisting of 1,163,061 rentable square feet, acquired for an aggregate purchase price of $790.7 million.
On August 18, 2020 (the “Listing Date”), the Company listed shares of Class A common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (the “Listing”). In anticipation of the Listing, the Company implemented a series of corporate actions which resulted in the bifurcation of the Company’s common stock into Class A common stock and Class B common stock in a net reduction of 2.43 shares for every one share of common stock outstanding prior to these corporate actions (the “Reverse Stock Split”). All references made to share or per share amounts as of dates prior to August 5, 2020 in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and applicable disclosures have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split on that date. To effect the Listing, and to address the potential for selling pressure that may have existed at the outset of the Listing, the Company listed only shares of Class A common stock, which represented approximately 25% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock, on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) when trading commenced. The Company’s other class of outstanding stock is Class B common stock, which comprised approximately 75% of its outstanding shares of common stock at that time.The first of three equal tranches of shares of Class B common stock that were not listed on the NYSE on the Listing Date converted into 3,189,204 shares of Class A common stock and the shares were listed on the NYSE on December 16, 2020. Following a determination by the Company’s board of directors, the second tranche of shares of Class B common stock converted into 3,176,127 shares of Class A common stock and were listed on the NYSE on March 1, 2021. The remaining tranche of shares of of Class B common stock will convert into shares of Class A common stock to be listed on the NYSE on August 13, 2021, unless earlier converted. For additional information, see Note 7 - Stockholders’ Equity to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Substantially all of the Company’s business is conducted through the OP and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The Company’s advisor, New York City Advisors, LLC (the “Advisor”), manages our day-to-day business with the assistance of our Property Manager. Our Advisor and New York City Properties, LLC (the “Property Manager”) are under common control with AR Global and these related parties receive compensation and fees for providing services to us. We also reimburse these entities for certain expenses they incur in providing these services to us.
In connection with the Listing, the Company incurred expenses of $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 for financial advisory and other professional fees and expenses. In addition, various other impacts to the Company’s financial statements occurred in connection with the Listing which are discussed throughout these financial statements, including:
•The vesting, conversion and exchange of partnership units in the OP designated as “Class B Units” (“Class B Units”) held by the Advisor for shares of Class A common stock (see Note 7 - Stockholders’ Equity and Note 9 - Related Party Transactions and Arrangements).
•The redemption of units of limited partnership in the OP designated as “Class A Units,” which were formerly known as OP Units (“Class A Units”), held by the Advisor, for shares of Class A common stock (see Note 7 - Stockholders’ Equity and Note 9 - Related Party Transactions and Arrangements).
•The Company entered into the Listing Note (as defined herein) with the Advisor (see Note 9 - Related Party Transactions and Arrangements).
•The advisory agreement with the Advisor was amended to lower the quarterly thresholds the Company must reach on a quarterly basis for the Advisor to receive a variable management fee (see Note 9 - Related Party Transactions and Arrangements - “Asset Management Fees and Variable Management/Incentive Fees”).
•The issuance of an equity award to the Advisor under the 2020 OPP (as defined herein) (see Note 11 - Equity-Based Compensation, and Note 12 - Net Loss Per Share).
•The amendment and restatement of the Company’s distribution reinvestment plan (see Note 7 - Stockholders’ Equity).
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
•The amendment and restatement of the limited partnership agreement of the New York City Operating Partnership, L.P. (the “OP”) and (as so amended and restated, the “A&R OP Agreement”) (see Note 9 - Related Party Transactions and Arrangements).
Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Accounting
The accompanying consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared on the accrual basis of accounting in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”).
Principles of Consolidation
The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, the OP and its subsidiaries. All inter-company accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. In determining whether the Company has a controlling financial interest in a joint venture and the requirement to consolidate the accounts of that entity, management considers factors such as ownership interest, authority to make decisions and contractual and substantive participating rights of the other partners or members as well as whether the entity is a variable interest entity (“VIE”) for which the Company is the primary beneficiary. Substantially all of the Company’s assets and liabilities are held by the OP. The Company has determined the OP is a VIE of which the Company is the primary beneficiary.
Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management makes significant estimates regarding revenue recognition, purchase price allocations to record investments in real estate, and fair value measurements, as applicable.
Non-controlling Interests
The non-controlling interests represent the portion of the equity in the OP that is not owned by the Company. Non-controlling interests are presented as a separate component of equity on the consolidated balance sheets and presented as net loss attributable to non-controlling interests on the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Non-controlling interests are allocated a share of net loss based on their share of equity ownership. Prior to the Listing, the Advisor held 37 Class A Units, after giving effect to the Reverse Stock Split, which represented a nominal percentage of the aggregate OP ownership. These Class A Units were redeemed for an equal number of shares of Class A common stock on the Listing Date. Also, during the first quarter of 2021, 13,100 Class A Units held by a third party were converted into an equal number of Class A Units. These Class A Units were still outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and represent a non-controlling interest in the OP. In addition, under the multi-year outperformance agreement with the Advisor (the “2020 OPP”), the OP issued a new class of units of limited partnership designated as LTIP Units (“LTIP Units”), which are also reflected as part of non-controlling interest as of December 31, 2020. See Note 7 - Stockholders’ Equity and Note 11 - Equity-Based Compensation for additional information on amounts recorded in non-controlling interests during 2020.
Reclassifications
Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation:
•The Company currently presents equity-based compensation on its own line item in the consolidated statements of operations, which was previously presented in general and administrative expenses.
•The Company currently presents straight-line rent receivable and straight-line rent payable on its own line items in the consolidated statement of cash flows and consolidated balance sheets, which was previously included within prepaid expenses and other assets.
Out-of-Period Adjustments
During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company also recorded an adjustment to increase depreciation expense by approximately $0.3 million related to certain historical errors that occurred in the prior annual period result of placing construction in progress projects into service in the wrong periods, resulting in an understatement of depreciation expense in
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
those periods. The Company concluded that these errors noted above were not material to the current period or any historical periods presented and, accordingly, the Company adjusted the amounts on a cumulative basis in the fourth quarter of 2020.
Impacts of the COVID-19 Pandemic
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. During the first quarter of 2020, the global COVID-19 pandemic that has spread around the world and to every state in the United States commenced. The pandemic has had and could continue to have an adverse impact on economic and market conditions and triggered a period of global economic slowdown. The continued rapid development and fluidity of this situation precludes any prediction as to the ultimate adverse impact of COVID-19 on economic and market conditions. The Company considered the impact of COVID-19 on the assumptions and estimates underlying its consolidated financial statements and believes the estimates and assumptions are reasonable and supportable based on the information available as of December 31, 2020. However, given the rapid evolution of the COVID-19 pandemic and the global response to curb its spread, these estimates and assumptions as of December 31, 2020 are inherently less certain than they would be absent the actual and potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic. Actual results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
New York City, where all the Company’s properties are located, has been among the hardest hit locations in the country and has not yet fully reopened. The Company’s properties remain accessible to all tenants, although, even as operating restrictions expire, not all tenants have resumed operations. In addition, as operating restrictions expire, operating costs may begin to rise, including for services, labor and personal protective equipment and other supplies, as the Company’s property managers take appropriate actions to protect tenants and property management personnel. Some of these costs may be recoverable through reimbursement from tenants but others will be borne by the Company. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company experienced several lease expirations without renewals as well as terminations, including four during the fourth quarter of 2020. In addition, one of the Company’s tenants, Knotel, Inc. (“Knotel”), declared bankruptcy in early 2021. Management has already re-leased a portion of the vacant space and is working on securing additional new leases, although there can be no assurance the Company will be able to lease all or any portion of the currently vacant space at any property on acceptable or favorable terms, or at all.
The financial stability and overall health of tenants is critical to the Company’s business. The negative effects that the global pandemic has had on the economy includes the closure or reduction in activity for many retail operations such as some of those operated by the Company’s tenants. This has impacted the ability of some of the Company’s tenants to pay their monthly rent either temporarily or in the long term. The Company has experienced delays in rent collections in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2020. The Company has taken a proactive approach to achieve mutually agreeable solutions with its tenants and in some cases, in the second, third and fourth quarters of 2020, the Company has executed different types of lease amendments. These agreements include deferrals and abatements and also may include extensions to the term of the leases.
For accounting purposes, in accordance with ASC 842: Leases, normally a company would be required to assess a lease modification to determine if the lease modification should be treated as a separate lease and if not, modification accounting would be applied which would require a company to reassess the classification of the lease (including leases for which the prior classification under ASC 840 was retained as part of the election to apply the package of practical expedients allowed upon the adoption of ASC 842, which does not apply to leases subsequently modified). However, in light of the COVID-19 pandemic in which many leases are being modified, the FASB and SEC have provided relief that allows companies to make a policy election as to whether they treat COVID-19 related lease amendments as a provision included in the pre-concession arrangement, and therefore, not a lease modification, or to treat the lease amendment as a modification. In order to be considered COVID-19 related, cash flows must be substantially the same or less than those prior to the concession. For COVID-19 relief qualified changes, there are two methods to potentially account for such rent deferrals or abatements under the relief, (1) as if the changes were originally contemplated in the lease contract or (2) as if the deferred payments are variable lease payments contained in the lease contract. For all other lease changes that did not qualify for FASB relief, the Company would be required to apply modification accounting including assessing classification under ASC 842.
Some, but not all of the Company’s lease modifications qualify for the FASB relief. In accordance with the relief provisions, instead of treating these qualifying leases as modifications, the Company has elected to treat the modifications as if previously contained in the lease and recast rents receivable prospectively (if necessary). Under that accounting, for modifications that were deferrals only, there would be no impact on overall rental revenue and for any abatement amounts that reduced total rent to be received, the impact would be recognized ratably over the remaining life of the lease.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
For leases not qualifying for this relief, the Company applied modification accounting and determined that there were no changes in the current classification of its leases impacted by negotiations with its tenants.
Revenue Recognition
The Company’s revenues, which are derived primarily from lease contracts, include rents that each tenant pays in accordance with the terms of each lease reported on a straight-line basis over the initial term of the lease. As of December 31, 2020, these leases had an average remaining lease term of 7.2 years. Because many of the Company’s leases provide for rental increases at specified intervals, straight-line basis accounting requires that the Company record a receivable for, and include in revenue from tenants, unbilled rent receivables that the Company will receive if the tenant makes all rent payments required through the expiration of the initial term of the lease. When the Company acquires a property, the acquisition date is considered to be the commencement date for purposes of this calculation. For new leases after acquisition, the commencement date is considered to be the date the tenant takes control of the space. For lease modifications, the commencement date is considered to be the date the lease modification is executed. The Company defers the revenue related to lease payments received from tenants in advance of their due dates. Pursuant to certain of the Company’s lease agreements, tenants are required to reimburse the Company for certain property operating expenses (recorded in revenue from tenants), in addition to paying base rent, whereas under certain other lease agreements, the tenants are directly responsible for all operating costs of the respective properties. Under ASC 842, the Company has elected to report combined lease and non-lease components in a single line “Revenue from tenants”. For comparative purposes, the Company has also elected to reflect prior revenue and reimbursements reported under ASC 842 on a single line. For expenses paid directly by the tenant, under both ASC 842 and 840, the Company has reflected them on a net basis.
Included in revenue from tenants for the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded $0.1 million of tenant reimbursement related to prior year.
The following table presents future base rent payments due to the Company over the next five years and thereafter. These amounts exclude contingent rent payments, as applicable, that may be collected form certain tenants based on provisions related to sales thresholds and increases in annual rent based on exceeding certain economic indexes, among other items.
The Company owns certain properties with leases that include provisions for the tenant to pay contingent rental income based on a percent of the tenant’s sales upon the achievement of certain sales thresholds or other targets which may be monthly, quarterly or annual targets. As the lessor under the aforementioned leases, the Company defers the recognition of contingent rental income, until the specified target that triggered the contingent rental income is achieved, or until such sales upon which percentage rent is based are known. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, approximately $0.1 million, $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, in contingent rental income is included in revenue from tenants in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss.
The Company continually reviews receivables related to rent and unbilled rents receivable and determines collectability by taking into consideration the tenant’s payment history, the financial condition of the tenant, business conditions in the industry in which the tenant operates and economic conditions in the area in which the property is located. Under the leasing standard adopted on January 1, 2019 (see the “Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements” section below), the Company is required to assess, based on credit risk, if it is probable that the Company will collect virtually all of the lease payments at the lease commencement date, and it must continue to reassess collectability periodically thereafter based on new facts and circumstances affecting the credit risk of the tenant. In fiscal 2020, this assessment has included consideration of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s tenant’s ability to pay rents in accordance with their contracts. Partial reserves, or
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
the ability to assume partial recovery are no longer permitted. If the Company determines that it is probable that it will collect virtually all of the lease payments (base rent and additional rent), the lease will continue to be accounted for on an accrual basis (i.e., straight-line). However, if the Company determines it is not probable that it will collect virtually all of the lease payments, the lease will be accounted for on a cash basis and a full reserve would be recorded on previously accrued amounts in cases where it was subsequently concluded that collection was not probable. Cost recoveries from tenants are included in revenue from tenants, in accordance with current accounting rules, on the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss in the period the related costs are incurred, as applicable.
In accordance with lease accounting rules the Company records uncollectable amounts as reductions in revenue from tenants. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company reduced revenue from tenants by $8.5 million for reserves recorded during the period on receivables for which the related tenants have been put on a cash basis (see accounting policy above). Some of these reductions relate to tenants that terminated their leases early while others relate to leases that have not been paying rent and have been placed on a cash basis in accordance with ASC 842. There were no such reductions recorded for the years ended 2019 or 2018.
Investments in Real Estate
Investments in real estate are recorded at cost. Improvements and replacements are capitalized when they extend the useful life of the asset. Costs of repairs and maintenance are expensed as incurred.
At the time an asset is acquired, the Company evaluates the inputs, processes and outputs of the asset acquired to determine if the transaction is a business combination or asset acquisition. If an acquisition qualifies as a business combination, the related transaction costs are recorded as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. If an acquisition qualifies as an asset acquisition, the related transaction costs are generally capitalized and subsequently amortized over the useful life of the acquired assets. See the Purchase Price Allocation section in this Note for a discussion of the initial accounting for investments in real estate.
Disposal of real estate investments that represent a strategic shift in operations that will have a major effect on the Company's operations and financial results are required to be presented as discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. No properties were presented as discontinued operations during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018. Properties that are intended to be sold are to be designated as “held for sale” on the consolidated balance sheets at the lesser of carrying amount or fair value less estimated selling costs when they meet specific criteria to be presented as held for sale, most significantly that the sale is probable within one year. The Company evaluates probability of sale based on specific facts including whether a sales agreement is in place and the buyer has made significant non-refundable deposits. Properties are no longer depreciated when they are classified as held for sale. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not have any properties held for sale.
As more fully discussed in this Note under Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements - ASU No. 2016-02 Leases, all of the Company’s leases as lessor prior to adoption of ASC 842 on January 1, 2019 were accounted for as operating leases and the Company continued to account for them as operating leases under the transition guidance. The Company evaluates new leases originated after the adoption date (by the Company or by a predecessor lessor/owner) pursuant to the new guidance where a lease for some or all of a building is classified by a lessor as a sales-type lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership reside with the tenant. This situation is met if, among other things, there is an automatic transfer of title during the lease, a bargain purchase option, the non-cancelable lease term is for more than major part of remaining economic useful life of the asset (e.g., equal to or greater than 75%), if the present value of the minimum lease payments represents substantially all (e.g., equal to or greater than 90%) of the leased property’s fair value at lease inception, or if the asset so specialized in nature that it provides no alternative use to the lessor (and therefore would not provide any future value to the lessor) after the lease term. Further, such new leases would be evaluated to consider whether they would be failed sale-leaseback transactions and accounted for as financing transactions by the lessor. For the three year period ended December 31, 2020, the Company has no leases as a lessor that would be considered as sales-type leases or financings under sale-leaseback rules.
The Company is also the lessee under a land lease which was previously classified prior to adoption of ASC 842 and will continue to be classified as operating leases under transition elections unless subsequently modified. These leases are reflected on the balance sheet and the rent expense is reflected on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Purchase Price Allocation
In both a business combination and an asset acquisition, the Company allocates the purchase price of acquired properties to tangible and identifiable intangible assets or liabilities based on their respective fair values. Tangible assets may include land, land improvements, buildings, fixtures and tenant improvements on an as if vacant basis. Intangible assets may include the
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
value of in-place leases and above- and below- market leases and other identifiable assets or liabilities based on lease or property specific characteristics. In addition, any assumed mortgages receivable or payable and any assumed or issued noncontrolling interests (in a business combination) are recorded at their estimated fair values. In allocating the fair value to assumed mortgages, amounts are recorded to debt premiums or discounts based on the present value of the estimated cash flows, which is calculated to account for either above or below-market interest rates. In a business combination, the difference between the purchase price and the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is either recorded as goodwill or as a bargain purchase gain. In an asset acquisition, the difference between the acquisition price (including capitalized transaction costs) and the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is allocated to the non-current assets. There were no acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2020 and the acquisitions completed during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were asset acquisitions.
For acquired properties with leases classified as operating leases, the Company allocates the purchase price of acquired properties to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, based on their respective fair values. In making estimates of fair values for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company utilizes a number of sources, including independent appraisals that may be obtained in connection with the acquisition or financing of the respective property and other market data. The Company also considers information obtained about each property as a result of the Company’s pre-acquisition due diligence in estimating the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and intangible liabilities assumed.
Tangible assets include land, land improvements, buildings, fixtures and tenant improvements on an as-if vacant basis. The Company utilizes various estimates, processes and information to determine the as-if vacant property value. Estimates of value are made using customary methods, including data from appraisals, comparable sales, discounted cash flow analysis and other methods. Fair value estimates are also made using significant assumptions such as capitalization rates, discount rates, fair market lease rates and land values per square foot.
Identifiable intangible assets include amounts allocated to acquire leases for above- and below-market lease rates and the value of in-place leases as applicable. Factors considered in the analysis of the in-place lease intangibles include an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up period for each property, taking into account current market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, the Company includes real estate taxes, insurance and other operating expenses and estimates of lost rentals at contract rates during the expected lease-up period, which typically ranges from six to 24 months. The Company also estimates costs to execute similar leases including leasing commissions, legal and other related expenses.
Above-market and below-market lease values for acquired properties are initially recorded based on the present value (using a discount rate which reflects the risks associated with the leases acquired) of the difference between (i) the contractual amounts to be paid pursuant to each in-place lease and (ii) management’s estimate of fair market lease rates for each corresponding in-place lease, measured over a period equal to the remaining initial term of the lease for above-market leases and the remaining initial term plus the term of any below-market fixed rate renewal options for below-market leases.
The aggregate value of intangible assets related to customer relationship, as applicable, is measured based on the Company's evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease and the Company's overall relationship with the tenant. Characteristics considered by the Company in determining these values include the nature and extent of its existing business relationships with the tenant, growth prospects for developing new business with the tenant, the tenant’s credit quality and expectations of lease renewals, among other factors. The Company did not record any intangible asset amounts related to customer relationships for acquisitions completed during the years ended December 31, 2019 or 2018.
Gain on Dispositions of Real Estate Investments
Gains on sales of rental real estate after January 1, 2018 are not considered sales to customers and will generally be recognized pursuant to the provisions included in ASC 610-20, Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (“ASC 610-20”).
Gain on sales of real estate prior to January 1, 2018 are recognized pursuant to the provisions included in ASC 360-20, Real Estate Sales (“ASC 360-20”). The specific timing of a sale was measured against various criteria in and ASC 360-20 related to the terms of the transaction and any continuing involvement in the form of management or financial assistance associated with the properties. If the sales criteria for the full accrual method are not met, depending on the circumstances, the Company may not record a sale or it may record a sale but may defer some or all of the gain recognition. If the criteria for full accrual are not met, the Company may account for the transaction by applying the finance, leasing, profit sharing, deposit, installment or cost recovery methods, as appropriate, until the sales criteria for the full accrual method are met. The Company did not have any dispositions during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Impairment of Long Lived Assets
When circumstances indicate the carrying value of a property may not be recoverable, the Company reviews the property for impairment. This review is based on an estimate of the future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the property’s use and eventual disposition. These estimates consider factors such as expected future operating income, market and other applicable trends and residual value, as well as the effects of leasing demand, competition and other factors. If an impairment exists, due to the inability to recover the carrying value of a property, the Company would recognize an impairment loss in the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive (loss) to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value of the property for properties to be held and used. For properties held for sale, the impairment loss recorded would equal the adjustment to fair value less estimated cost to dispose of the asset. These assessments have a direct impact on net income because recording an impairment loss results in an immediate negative adjustment to net earnings. The Company did not recognize any impairment charges for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018.
Reportable Segment
The Company has determined that it has one reportable segment, income-producing properties, which consists of activities related to investing in real estate.
Depreciation and Amortization
Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of up to 40 years for buildings, 15 years for land improvements, five to seven years for fixtures and improvements, and the shorter of the useful life or the remaining lease term for tenant improvements and leasehold interests.
The value of in-place leases, exclusive of the value of above-market and below-market in-place leases, is amortized to expense over the remaining periods of the respective leases.
The value of customer relationship intangibles, if any, is amortized to expense over the initial term and any renewal periods in the respective leases, but in no event does the amortization period for intangible assets exceed the remaining depreciable life of the building. If a tenant terminates its lease, the unamortized portion of the in-place lease value and customer relationship intangibles is charged to expense.
Assumed mortgage premiums or discounts, if applicable, are amortized as a reduction or increase to interest expense over the remaining term of the respective mortgages.
Above and Below-Market Lease Amortization
The above-market lease assets are amortized as a reduction of revenue from tenants over the remaining terms of the respective leases and the below-market lease liabilities are amortized as an increase to revenue from tenants over the remaining initial terms plus the terms of any below-market fixed rate renewal options of the respective leases. If a tenant with a below-market rent renewal does not renew, any remaining unamortized amount will be taken into income at that time.
The above-market ground lease liabilities are amortized as a reduction of property operating expense over the remaining terms of the respective leases. The below-market ground lease assets are amortized as an increase to property operating expense over the remaining terms of the respective leases and expected below-market renewal option periods.
Derivative Instruments
The Company may use derivative financial instruments to hedge all or a portion of the interest rate risk associated with its borrowings. Certain of the techniques used to hedge exposure to interest rate fluctuations may also be used to protect against declines in the market value of assets that result from general trends in debt markets. The principal objective of such agreements is to minimize the risks and costs associated with the Company’s operating and financial structure as well as to hedge specific anticipated transactions.
The Company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of derivatives depends on the intended use of the derivative, whether the Company has elected to designate a derivative in a hedging relationship and apply hedge accounting and whether the hedging relationship has satisfied the criteria necessary to apply hedge accounting. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to changes in the fair value of an asset, liability, or firm commitment attributable to a particular risk, such as interest rate risk, are considered fair value hedges. Derivatives designated and qualifying as a hedge of the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows, or other types of forecasted transactions, are considered cash flow hedges. Derivatives may also be designated as hedges of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. Hedge accounting generally provides for the matching of the timing of gain or loss recognition on the hedging instrument with the recognition of the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged risk in a fair value hedge or the earnings effect of the hedged forecasted transactions
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
in a cash flow hedge. The Company may enter into derivative contracts that are intended to economically hedge certain of its risk, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the Company elects not to apply hedge accounting.
The accounting for subsequent changes in the fair value of these derivatives depends on whether each has been designated and qualifies for hedge accounting treatment. If the Company elects not to apply hedge accounting treatment, any change in the fair value of these derivative instruments is recognized immediately in gains (losses) on derivative instruments in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. If the derivative is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting treatment, the change in the estimated fair value of the derivative is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) to the extent that it is effective with any ineffective portion of a derivative’s change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings. After the adoption of ASU 2017-12, if the derivative qualified for hedge accounting, all the change in value is recorded in other comprehensive income.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in bank accounts as well as investments in highly-liquid money market funds with original maturities of three months or less. The Company deposits cash with high quality financial institutions. These deposits are guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Company (“FDIC”) up to an insurance limit. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash of $40.0 million and $58.3 million, of which $38.2 million and $56.4 million, respectively, were in excess of the amount insured by the FDIC. Although the Company bears risk to amounts in excess of those insured by the FDIC, it does not anticipate any losses as a result thereof.
Restricted Cash
Restricted cash primarily consists of ground rent, real estate taxes, structural, leasing commissions, free rent and insurance reserves.
Deferred Financing and Leasing Costs, net
Deferred leasing costs, net consist primarily of lease commissions and professional fees incurred, and are deferred and amortized to depreciation and amortization expense over the term of the related lease.
Deferred financing costs relating to the mortgage notes payable (see Note 4 - Mortgage Notes Payable, Net) are reflected net of the related financing on our balance sheet. Deferred financing costs associated with the mortgage notes payable represent commitment fees, legal fees, and other costs associated with obtaining commitments for financing. These costs are amortized as additional interest expense over the term of the financing agreement. Unamortized deferred financing costs are expensed when the associated debt is refinanced or paid down before maturity. Costs incurred in seeking financial transactions that do not close are expensed in the period in which it is determined that the financing will not close.
Equity-Based Compensation
The Company has a stock-based plan under which its directors, officers and other employees of the Advisor or its affiliates who are involved in providing services to the Company are eligible to receive awards. Awards granted thereunder are accounted for under the guidance for share based payments. The cost of services received in exchange for these stock awards is measured at the grant date fair value of the award and the expense for such an award is included in equity-based compensation and is recognized in accordance with the service period (i.e., vesting) required or when the requirements for exercise of the award have been met.
Effective at the Listing, the Company entered into the 2020 OPP (as defined herein) under which the LTIP Units (as defined herein) were issued to the Advisor. These awards are market-based awards with a related required service period. In accordance with ASC 718, the LTIP Units were valued at their measurement date and that value is reflected as a charge to earnings evenly over the service period. Further, in the event of a modification, any incremental increase in the value of the instrument measured on the date of the modification both before and after the modification, will result in an incremental amount to be reflected prospectively as a charge to earnings over the remaining service period. The expense for these non-employee awards is included in the equity-based compensation line item of the consolidated statements of operations. See Note 11 - Equity-Based Compensation for additional information.
Income Taxes
The Company elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”) commencing with its taxable year ended December 31, 2014. The Company believes that, commencing with such taxable year, it has been organized and has operated in a manner so that it qualifies as a REIT under the Code. The Company intends to continue to operate in such a manner, but can provide no assurances that it will operate in a manner so as to
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
remain qualified as a REIT. To continue to qualify as a REIT, the Company must distribute annually at least 90% of the Company’s REIT taxable income (which does not equal net income as calculated in accordance with GAAP), determined without regard for the deduction for dividends paid and excluding net capital gains, and comply with a number of other organizational and operational requirements. If the Company continues to qualify as a REIT, it generally will not be subject to federal corporate income tax on the portion of its REIT taxable income that it distributes to its stockholders. Even if the Company qualifies as a REIT, it may be subject to certain state and local taxes on its income and properties, as well as U.S. federal income and excise taxes on its undistributed income.
The amount of dividends payable to the Company’s stockholders is determined by the board of directors and is dependent on a number of factors, including funds available for distribution, financial condition, capital expenditure requirements, as applicable, and annual distribution requirements needed to qualify and maintain the Company’s status as a REIT under the Code.
The Company had no REIT taxable income requiring distribution for each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. Accordingly, from a U.S. federal income tax perspective, 100% of distributions, or $0.04889 per share for the year ended December 31, 2020 and 100% of distributions, or $0.60 per share (adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split) for the year ended December 31, 2018 represented a return of capital. There were no distributions for the year ended December 31, 2019.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had no material uncertain tax positions. The tax years subsequent to and including December 31, 2015 remain open to examination by the major taxing jurisdictions to which the Company is subject.
Per Share Data
Basic net loss per share of common stock is calculated by dividing net loss by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock issued and outstanding during such period. Diluted net loss per share of common stock considers the effect of potentially dilutive instruments outstanding during such period. See Note 12 - Net Loss Per Share for additional information.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Adopted as of January 1, 2018:
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606), and has since issued several additional amendments thereto (collectively referred to herein as “ASC 606”). ASC 606 establishes a comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers. Under ASC 606, an entity is required to recognize revenue when it transfers promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. ASC 606 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. A reporting entity may apply the amendments in ASC 606 using either a modified retrospective approach, by recording a cumulative-effect adjustment to equity as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption or a full retrospective approach. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the modified retrospective approach, and it did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The new guidance did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements, primarily as a result of revenue being sourced from lease arrangements that are outside the scope of ASC 606 until the new lease standard was adopted.
In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01, Financial Instruments-Overall (Subtopic 825-10), that amends the recognition and measurement of financial instruments. The new guidance revises an entity’s accounting related to equity investments and the presentation of certain fair value changes for financial liabilities measured at fair value. Among other things, it also amends the presentation and disclosure requirements associated with the fair value of financial instruments. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018 and there was no impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15, Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments, which provides guidance on how certain transactions should be classified and presented in the statement of cash flows as either operating, investing or financing activities. Among other things, the update provides specific guidance on where to classify debt prepayment and extinguishment costs, payments for contingent consideration made after a business combination and distributions received from equity method investments. The Company adopted the new guidance beginning in the first quarter of 2018, and it did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated statement of cash flows.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01, Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business (“ASU 2017-01”), which revises the definition of a business. This new guidance is applicable when evaluating
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
whether an acquisition should be treated as either a business acquisition or an asset acquisition. Under the revised guidance, when substantially all of the fair value of gross assets acquired is concentrated in a single asset or group of similar assets, the assets acquired would not be considered a business. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018 and will apply the new rules prospectively. The Company expects, based on historical property acquisitions, that in most cases, a future property acquired after adoption will be treated as an asset acquisition rather than a business acquisition, which will result in the capitalization of related transaction costs. The Company has evaluated the impact of this new guidance beginning in the first quarter of 2018 and determined that it did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. All acquisition costs incurred during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were capitalized since acquisitions during the years were all classified as asset acquisitions.
In February 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-05, Other Income - Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets (Subtopic 610-20): Clarifying the Scope of Assets Derecognition Guidance and Accounting for Partial Sales of Nonfinancial Assets, which provides guidance related to partial sales of non-financial assets, eliminates rules specifically addressing the sales of real estate, clarifies the definition of in substance non-financial assets, removes the exception to the financial asset derecognition model and clarifies the accounting for contributions of non-financial assets to joint ventures. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018 using the modified transition method. Sales of real estate in which the Company loses its controlling interest in the real estate property will result in the full gain amount being recognized at the time of the partial sale. The Company did not have any real estate sales during the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 or 2017.
In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09, Compensation-Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting, which clarifies which changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting. The update states that modification accounting should be used unless the fair value of the award, the vesting terms of the award and the classification of the award as either equity or liability, all do not change as a result of the modification. The Company adopted this guidance effective January 1, 2018 and it did not have an impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. The Company expects that any future modifications to its issued share-based awards will be accounted for using modification accounting, unless the modification meets all of the exception criteria noted above. As a result, the modification would be treated as an exchange of the original award for a new award, with any incremental fair value being treated as additional compensation cost.
Adopted as of January 1, 2019:
ASU No. 2016-02 - Leases
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (“ASU 2016-02") which provides guidance related to the accounting for leases, as well as the related disclosures. For lessors of real estate, leases are accounted for using an approach substantially the same as previous accounting guidance for operating leases and direct financing leases. For lessees, the standard requires the application of a dual lease classification approach, classifying leases as either operating or finance leases based on the principle of whether or not the lease is effectively a financed purchase by the lessee. Lease expense for operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, while lease expense for finance leases is recognized based on an effective interest method over the term of the lease. Also, lessees must recognize a right-of-use asset (“ROU”) and a lease liability for all leases with a term of greater than 12 months regardless of their classification. Further, certain transactions where at inception of the lease the buyer-lessor accounted for the transaction as a purchase of real estate and a new lease, may now be required to have symmetrical accounting to the seller-lessee if the transaction was not a qualified sale-leaseback and accounted for as a financing transaction.
Upon adoption, lessors were allowed a practical expedient, which the Company has elected, by class of underlying assets to account for lease and non-lease components (such as tenant reimbursements of property operating expenses) as a single lease component as an operating lease because: (a) the non-lease components have the same timing and pattern of transfer as the associated lease component; and (b) the lease component, if accounted for separately, would be classified as an operating lease. Additionally, only incremental direct leasing costs may be capitalized under this guidance, which is consistent with the Company’s existing policies. Also, upon adoption, companies were allowed a practical expedient package, which the Company has elected, that allowed the Company: (a) to not reassess whether any expired or existing contracts entered into prior to January 1, 2019 are or contain leases; (b) to not reassess the lease classification for any expired or existing leases entered into prior to January 1, 2019 (including assessing sale-leaseback transactions); and (c) to not reassess initial direct costs for any expired or existing leases entered into prior to January 1, 2019. As a result, all of the Company’s existing leases will continue to be classified as operating leases under the standard. Further, any existing leases for which the property is the leased to a tenant
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
in a transaction that at inception was a sale-leaseback transaction will continue to be treated (absent a modification) as operating leases. The Company did not have any leases that would be considered financing leases as of January 1, 2019.
The Company assessed the impact of adoption from both a lessor and lessee perspective, which is discussed in more detail below, and adopted the guidance prospectively on January 1, 2019, using a prospective transition approach under which the Company elected to apply the guidance effective January 1, 2019 and not adjust prior comparative reporting periods (except for the Company’s presentation of lease revenue discussed below).
Lessor Accounting
As discussed above, the Company was not required to re-assess the classification of its leases, which are considered operating leases under ASU 2016-02. The following is a summary of the most significant impacts to the Company of the new accounting guidance, as lessor:
•Since the Company elected the practical expedient noted above to not separate non-lease component revenue from the associated lease component, the Company has aggregated revenue from its lease components and non-lease components (tenant operating expense reimbursements) into one line. The prior period has been conformed to this new presentation.
•The Company did not have any reserves for bad debts at December 31, 2018, therefore it did not have to make an assessment of any bad debt reserves under the new accounting rules.
•Indirect leasing costs in connection with new or extended tenant leases, if any, are being expensed. Under prior accounting guidance, the recognition would have been deferred.
Lessee Accounting
The Company is a lessee under a ground lease for one property as of January 1, 2019. The following is a summary of the most significant impacts to the Company of the new accounting guidance, as lessee:
•Upon adoption of the new standard, the Company recorded a right-of-use asset (an “ROU asset”) and lease liability equal to $54.9 million for the present value of the lease payments related to the lease. These amounts are presented separately in operating lease right-of-use asset and operating lease liability, respectively, on the consolidated balance sheet.
•The Company also reclassified $2.7 million related to amounts previously reported as a straight-line rent liability, $2.4 million related to amounts previously reported as a below market ground lease intangible asset and $1.2 million of prepaid rent to the ROU asset. For additional information and disclosures related to these operating leases, see Note 8 - Commitments and Contingencies.
Other Accounting Pronouncement Adopted As of January 1, 2019
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-12, Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities, to better align cash flow and fair value hedge accounting with the corresponding risk management activities. Among other things, the amendments expand which hedging strategies are eligible for hedge accounting, align the timing of recognition of hedge results with the earnings effect of the hedged item and allow companies to include the change in fair value of the derivative in the same income statement line item as the earnings effect of the hedged item. Additionally, for cash flow hedges that are highly effective, the update allows for all changes in fair value of the derivative to be recorded in other comprehensive income. The Company has adopted ASU 2017-12 on January 1, 2019, as required under the guidance, using a modified retrospective transition method and the adoption on January 1, 2019 did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
Adopted as of January 1, 2020:
In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which changes how entities measure credit losses for financial assets carried at amortized cost. The update eliminates the requirement that a credit loss must be probable before it can be recognized and instead requires an entity to recognize the current estimate of all expected credit losses. Additionally, the amended standard requires credit losses on available-for-sale debt securities to be carried as an allowance rather than as a direct write-down of the asset. On July 25, 2018, the FASB proposed an amendment to ASU 2016-13 to clarify that operating lease receivables recorded by lessors (including unbilled straight-line rent) are explicitly excluded from the scope of ASU 2016-13. The new guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2020. The Company adopted the new guidance on January 1, 2020 and determined it did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework-Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement. The objective of ASU 2018-13 is to improve the effectiveness of disclosures in the notes to the financial statements by removing, modifying, and adding certain fair value disclosure requirements to facilitate clear communication of the information required by generally accepted accounting principles. The amended guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2020. The Company adopted the new guidance on January 1, 2020 and determined it did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.
In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting. ASU 2020-04 contains practical expedients for reference rate reform-related activities that impact debt, leases, derivatives, and other contracts. The guidance in ASU 2020-04 is optional and may be elected over time as reference rate reform activities occur. During the first quarter of 2020, we elected to apply the hedge accounting expedients related to probability and the assessments of effectiveness for future London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) indexed cash flows to assume that the index upon which future hedged transactions will be based matches the index on the corresponding derivatives. Application of these expedients preserves the presentation of derivatives consistent with past presentation. The Company will continue to evaluate the impact of the guidance and may apply other elections as applicable as additional changes in the market occur.
Pending Adoption as of December 31, 2020
In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-06, Debt - Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Topic 470) and Derivatives and Hedging - Contracts in Entity’s Own Equity (Topic 815). The new standard reduces the number of accounting models for convertible debt instruments and convertible preferred stock, and amends the guidance for the derivatives scope exception for contracts in an entity's own equity. The standard also amends and makes targeted improvements to the related earnings per share guidance. The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2021, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted, but no earlier than fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2020, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The standard allows for either modified or full retrospective transition methods. The Company is currently evaluating this guidance to determine the impact it may have on its consolidated financial statements.
In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848). Topic 848 contains practical expedients for reference rate reform related activities that impact debt, leases, derivatives and other contracts. The guidance in Topic 848 is optional and may be elected over the period March 12, 2020 through December 31, 2022 as reference rate reform activities occur. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company elected to apply the hedge accounting expedients related to (i) the assertion that the Company’s hedged forecasted transactions remain probable and (ii) the assessments of effectiveness for future LIBOR-indexed cash flows to assume that the index upon which future hedged transactions will be based matches the index on the corresponding derivatives. Application of these expedients preserves the presentation of the Company’s derivatives, which will be consistent with the Company’s past presentation. The Company will continue to evaluate the impact of the guidance and may apply other elections, as applicable, as additional changes in the market occur.
Note 3 - Real Estate Investments
There were no real estate assets acquired or liabilities assumed during the year ended December 31, 2020. Also, there were no dispositions of real estate in the three year period ended December 31, 2020. However, the Company is evaluating its options for its 421 W. 54th Street - Hit Factory property, which include marketing the property for sale. As no buyer has been identified for the property, it does not qualify to be classified as held for sale on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. There have also not been any impairment charges recorded for this property as the estimated fair value exceeds its carrying value at December 31, 2020.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Prior Year Acquisitions
On July 17, 2019, the Company acquired a fee-simple interest in three condominium units located at 196 Orchard Street, New York, NY, 10002 (“196 Orchard Street”) and in October 2018 the Company acquired a property located at 8713 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY. The following table presents the allocation of real estate assets acquired and liabilities assumed during the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018.
________________
(1)Weighted-average remaining amortization periods for in-place leases and market lease and other intangible assets acquired during the year ended December 31, 2019 were 13.4 years and 13.4 years, respectively, as of the acquisition date.
Significant Tenants
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 there were no tenants whose annualized rental income on a straight-line basis, based on leases commenced, represented greater than 10% of total annualized rental income for all portfolio properties on a straight-line basis.
Intangible Assets and Liabilities
Acquired intangible assets and lease liabilities consisted of the following as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
The following table discloses the amounts recognized within the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss related to amortization of in-place leases and other intangibles and amortization and accretion of above- and below-market lease assets and liabilities, net, for the periods presented:
____
(1) During the year ended December 31, 2020, in connection with leases that were terminated during the year, the Company wrote off approximately $1.3 million of in-place lease intangibles, which is included in depreciation and amortization expense in the consolidated statement of operations. Additionally, in connection with the same lease terminations, the Company wrote off approximately $1.9 million of below-market lease intangibles and $0.1 million of above-market lease intangibles during the year ended December 31, 2020, which was included in the revenue from tenants in the consolidated statement of operations.
(2) Upon adoption of ASC 842 effective January 1, 2019, intangible balances related to ground leases were reclassified to be included as part of the Operating lease right-of-use assets presented on the consolidated balance sheet with no change to placement of the amortization expense of such balances. See Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information.
The following table provides the projected amortization expenses and adjustments to revenue from tenants for the next five years as of December 31, 2020:
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Note 4 - Mortgage Notes Payable, Net
The Company’s mortgage notes payable as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:
______
(1)As of December 31, 2020, $2.5 million of the proceeds remained in escrow and in accordance with the conditions under the loan agreement and presented as part of restricted cash on the consolidated balance sheet. The escrow amount will be released to fund leasing activity, tenant improvements and leasing commissions related to this property.
(2)Due to covenant breaches resulting in cash traps for these properties, all cash generated from operating these properties is being held in a segregated account, and the Company no longer has access to the excess cash flows. See “Collateral and Interest Payments” section below for additional details.
(3)Fixed as a result of the Company having entered into a “pay-fixed” interest rate swap agreement, which is included in derivatives, at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020 (see Note 6 - Derivatives and Hedging Activities for additional information).
(4)Deferred financing costs represent commitment fees, legal fees, and other costs associated with obtaining commitments for financing. These costs are amortized to interest expense over the terms of the respective financing agreements. Unamortized deferred financing costs are expensed when the associated debt is refinanced or repaid before maturity. Costs incurred in seeking financial transactions that do not close are expensed in the period in which it is determined that the financing will not close.
Nationwide Life Insurance Company Loan
On July 17, 2019, the Company, through the OP, entered into a loan agreement with Nationwide Life Insurance Company for a $51.0 million loan in connection with the acquisition of 196 Orchard Street. The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.85% and matures on August 1, 2029. The loan requires monthly interest-only payments, with the principal balance due on the maturity date, and is secured by, among other things, a first mortgage on the property. The Company has guaranteed, (i) at all times, certain enumerated recourse liabilities of the borrower under the agreement, and (ii) from and after certain events of defaults and other breaches under the agreement and other loan documents (including bankruptcies or similar events), payment of all amounts due to the lender in respect of the loan.
Capital One Loan
On April 26, 2019, the Company, through the OP, entered into a term loan agreement with Capital One, National Association, as administrative agent, and the other lenders party thereto for a $55.0 million loan with an interest rate of 30-day LIBOR (with a floor of zero) plus 1.50% per annum, which has been fixed at 3.67% by a swap agreement. The loan has a maturity date of April 26, 2024, and requires monthly interest-only payments, with the principal balance due on the maturity date. The loan is secured by, among other things, a mortgage lien on the Company’s previously unencumbered 9 Times Square property. The Company has guaranteed certain enumerated recourse liabilities of the borrower under the agreement and the guaranty requires the Company to maintain a minimum net worth in excess of $175.0 million and minimum liquid assets of $10.0 million.
Société Générale Loan
On April 13, 2018, the Company, through the OP, entered into a loan agreement with Société Générale for a $50.0 million loan with a fixed interest rate of 4.516% and a maturity date of May 1, 2028 (the “April 2018 Loan”). The loan requires
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
monthly interest-only payments, with the principal balance due on the maturity date. The loan is secured by, among other things, mortgage liens on two of the Company’s previously unencumbered properties, the retail condominiums located at 400 E. 67th Street, New York, New York and a parking garage condominium unit located at 200 Riverside Boulevard, New York, New York. The loan agreement permits the lender to securitize the loan or any portion thereof.
At the closing of the loan, the net proceeds after accrued interest and closing costs were used to fund approximately $0.6 million in deposits into reserve accounts required to be made at closing under the loan agreement, with approximately $47.1 million in net proceeds remaining available to the Company to be used for general corporate purposes, including to make future acquisitions. From and after May 1, 2019, the loan may be prepaid at any time in whole, but not in part (unless a mortgaged property is released from the loan), subject to certain conditions and limitations, including payment of a yield maintenance prepayment premium for any prepayments made prior to the March 2028 monthly payment date. From and after May 1, 2019, any mortgaged property may, subject to certain conditions and limitations, be released from the loan in connection with a sale or disposition of the mortgaged property to a bona-fide third party by prepayment of an amount equal to 115% of the portion of the loan allocated to the mortgaged property sold or disposed, plus any applicable yield maintenance prepayment premium. In addition, from and after May 1, 2019 and prior to May 1, 2028, the garage condominium (but not the retail condominium) may be released from the loan, subject to certain conditions and limitations, by simultaneously substituting another property (or properties) for the garage condominium. The OP has guaranteed, pursuant to a guaranty in favor of the lender, certain enumerated recourse liabilities of the borrowers under the loan agreement and, from and after certain events of defaults and other breaches under the loan agreement as well as bankruptcies or similar events, payment of all amounts due to the lender in respect of the loan. The guaranty also requires the OP to maintain a minimum net worth of $57.5 million and minimum liquid assets of $3.0 million.
Collateral and Principal Payments
Real estate assets and intangible assets of $828.2 million, at cost (net of below-market lease liabilities), at December 31, 2020 have been pledged as collateral to the Company’s mortgage notes payable and are not available to satisfy the Company’s other obligations unless first satisfying the mortgage note payable on the property. The Company is required to make payments of interest on its mortgage note payable on a monthly basis.
The following table summarizes the scheduled aggregate principal payments subsequent to December 31, 2020:
The Company is currently in breach of a debt service coverage provision and a reserve fund reserve provision under its non-recourse mortgage secured by the 1140 Avenue of the Americas property for the last two quarters. These breaches are not events of default, rather they require excess cash (after payment of operating costs, debt service and capital/tenant replacement reserves) to be held in a segregated account as additional collateral under the loan. The covenants for this loan may be cured after achieving two consecutive quarters when the required debt service coverage for the property is maintained, whereupon the additional collateral will be released. Currently, the Company has not cured the breaches through any other means. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has $2.9 million cash retained by the lender and maintained in restricted cash associated with this event. The Company can remain subject to this reserve requirement through maturity of the loan without further penalty or ramifications.
The Company is also currently in breach of a debt service coverage and debt yield covenants under its non-recourse mortgage secured by the 9 Times Square property as of the year ended December 31, 2020. These breaches are not events of default, but rather require the Company to enter into a cash management period whereby all rents and other revenue of the
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
property are to be held in a segregated account as additional collateral under the loan. The covenants may be cured after achieving two consecutive quarters when the required debt service coverage and debt yield for the property is maintained. The Company may remain in breach of the covenants for up to four consecutive quarters. The Company is in discussions with the lender and is currently evaluating options under the loan pursuant to the contract and other alternative options associated with the property. In the near term, the Company anticipates funding interest shortfalls on this loan out of cash on hand.
The Company was in compliance with the remaining covenants under its other mortgage notes payable as of December 31, 2020, however, it continues to monitor compliance with those provisions. If the Company experiences additional lease terminations, due to tenant bankruptcies or otherwise, it is possible that certain of the covenants on other loans may be breached and the Company may also become restricted from accessing excess cash flows from those properties. Similar to the loans discussed above, the Company’s other mortgages also contain cash management provisions that are not considered events of default, and as such, acceleration of principal would only occur upon an event of default.
LIBOR Transition
In July 2017, the Financial Conduct Authority (which regulates LIBOR) announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. As a result, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York organized the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, which identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its preferred alternative to LIBOR in derivatives and other financial contracts. On March 5, 2021, the Financial Conduct Authority confirmed a partial extension of this deadline, announcing that, while it will cease the publication of the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR settings immediately following December 31, 2021, the remaining USD LIBOR settings will continue to be published through June 30, 2023. The Company is not able to predict when LIBOR may be limited or discontinued or when there will be sufficient liquidity in the SOFR market. The Company is monitoring and evaluating the risks related to potential changes in LIBOR availability, which include potential changes in interest paid on one of its loan agreements and its interest rate swap. In addition, the value of debt or derivative instrument tied to LIBOR could also be impacted when LIBOR is limited or discontinued and contracts must be transitioned to a new alternative rate. In some instances, transitioning to an alternative rate may require negotiation with lenders and other counterparties and could present challenges.
The Company has a mortgage loan agreement and a related derivative agreement for a “pay-fixed” swap that have terms based on LIBOR. Those agreements have alternative rates already contained in the agreements, and the Company anticipates that it will either utilize the alternative rates contained in the agreements or negotiate a replacement reference rate for LIBOR with the lenders and derivative counterparties.
Note 5 - Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The Company determines fair value based on quoted prices when available or through the use of alternative approaches, such as discounting the expected cash flows using market interest rates commensurate with the credit quality and duration of the instrument. This alternative approach also reflects the contractual terms of the instrument, as applicable, including the period to maturity, and may use observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied volatilities, and unobservable inputs, such as expected volatility. The guidance defines three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value:
Level 1-Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date.
Level 2-Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset and liability or can be corroborated with observable market data for substantially the entire contractual term of the asset or liability.
Level 3-Unobservable inputs that reflect the entity’s own assumptions that market participants would use in the pricing of the asset or liability and are consequently not based on market activity, but rather through particular valuation techniques.
The determination of where an asset or liability falls in the hierarchy requires significant judgment and considers factors specific to the asset or liability. In instances where the determination of the fair value measurement is based on inputs from different levels of the fair value hierarchy, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the entire fair value measurement falls is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
Derivative Instruments
The Company’s derivative instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Although the Company has determined that the majority of the inputs used to value its derivatives fall within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, the credit valuation adjustments associated with this derivative utilize Level 3 inputs, such as estimates of current credit spreads to evaluate the likelihood of default by the Company and its counterparty. However, as of December 31, 2020, the Company has assessed the significance of the impact of the credit valuation adjustments on the overall valuation of its derivative positions and has determined that the credit valuation adjustments are not significant to the overall valuation of the Company’s derivatives. As a result, the Company has determined that its derivatives valuation in its entirety is classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
The valuation of derivative instruments is determined using a discounted cash flow analysis on the expected cash flows of each derivative. This analysis reflects the contractual terms of the derivatives, including the period to maturity, as well as observable market-based inputs, including interest rate curves and implied volatilities. In addition, credit valuation adjustments are incorporated into the fair values to account for the Company’s potential nonperformance risk and the performance risk of the counterparties.
Financial Instruments that are not Reported at Fair Value
The Company is required to disclose at least annually the fair value of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate the value. The fair value of short-term financial instruments such as cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, prepaid expenses and other assets, accounts payable and distributions payable approximates their carrying value on the consolidated balance sheet due to their short-term nature. The fair value of the variable mortgage note payable is deemed to be equivalent to its carrying value because it bears interest at a variable rate that fluctuates with the market and there has been no significant change in the credit risk or credit markets since origination.
The fair values of the Company’s financial instruments that are not reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet are reported below:
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Note 6 - Derivatives and Hedging Activities
Risk Management Objective of Using Derivatives
The Company currently uses derivative financial instruments, including an interest rate swap, and may in the future use others, including options, floors and other interest rate derivative contracts, to hedge all or a portion of the interest rate risk associated with its borrowings. The principal objective of such arrangements is to minimize the risks and costs associated with the Company’s operating and financial structure as well as to hedge specific anticipated transactions. The Company does not intend to utilize derivatives for speculative or other purposes other than interest rate risk management. The use of derivative financial instruments carries certain risks, including the risk that the counterparties to these contractual arrangements are not able to perform under the agreements. To mitigate this risk, the Company endeavors to only enter into derivative financial instruments with counterparties with high credit ratings and with major financial institutions with which the Company and its affiliates may also have other financial relationships. The Company does not anticipate that any of the counterparties will fail to meet their obligations.
On March 28, 2019, the Company entered into a forward starting five-year interest rate swap which became effective on May 1, 2019. The Company entered into this derivative in order to lock-in and swap the floating rate interest on its term loan encumbering the Company’s 9 Times Square property to a fixed rate. Upon entering into the swap, the Company paid a deposit of $0.8 million which was refunded at the closing of the new financing for the 9 Times Square property effective as of April 26, 2019.
The table below presents the fair value of the Company’s derivative financial instruments as well as their classification on the Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk
The Company’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, the Company primarily uses interest rate swaps and collars as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for the Company making fixed-rate payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount. Interest rate collars designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts if interest rates rise above the cap strike rate on the contract and payments of variable-rate amounts if interest rates fall below the floor strike rate on the contract.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
The changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and are subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, such derivatives were used to hedge the variable cash flows associated with variable-rate debt.
Amounts reported in accumulated other comprehensive income related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Company’s variable-rate debt. During the next 12 months, the Company estimates that $1.1 million will be reclassified from other comprehensive income as an increase to interest expense.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had the following derivatives that were designated as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk.
The table below details the location in the financial statements of the gain or loss recognized on interest rate derivatives designated as cash flow hedges for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. There were no derivatives outstanding as of December 31, 2018.
Offsetting Derivatives
The table below presents a gross presentation, the effects of offsetting, and a net presentation of the Company’s derivatives as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. The net amounts of derivative assets or liabilities can be reconciled to the tabular disclosure of fair value. The tabular disclosure of fair value provides the location that derivative assets and liabilities are presented on the Balance Sheet.
Credit-risk-related Contingent Features
The Company has agreements with its derivative counterparty that contain a provision where if the Company either defaults or is capable of being declared in default on any of its indebtedness, then the Company could also be declared in default on its derivative obligations.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of derivatives in a net liability position including accrued interest but excluding any adjustment for nonperformance risk related to these agreements was $3.4 million. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has not posted any collateral related to these agreements and was not in breach of any agreement provisions. If the Company had breached any of these provisions, it could have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at their aggregate termination value of $3.4 million.
Note 7 - Stockholders’ Equity
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had 12.8 million shares of common stock outstanding, after giving effect to the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1 - Organization for additional details), including unvested restricted shares and shares issued pursuant to the DRIP. As of December 31, 2020, the Company’s shares of common stock outstanding was comprised of 6.4 million shares of Class A common stock, including unvested restricted shares and 6.4 million shares of Class B common stock, including unvested restricted shares. On February 26, 2021, the Company filed a Certificate of Notice (the “Certificate”) with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland providing notice of the determination by the board of directors to change the second automatic conversion date of the Class B Shares of the Company from April 15, 2021 to March 1, 2021. Accordingly, on March 1, 2021, half of the then outstanding Class B Shares of the Company converted into Class A Shares of the Company and were listed on the NYSE (see Note 14 - Subsequent Events for additional details). Except with respect to listing and conversion as described in Note 1 - Organization, shares of Class B common stock have identical preferences, rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to dividends and other distributions, qualifications, and terms and conditions of redemption as the shares of Class A common stock. Accordingly, Class A common stock and Class B common stock are reflected collectively as “common stock” on a combined basis in the financial statements.
On February 27, 2018, the Company’s board of directors unanimously authorized a suspension of the distributions that the Company pays to holders of the Company’s common stock, effective as of March 1, 2018. As a result, the Company did not pay distributions during the year ended December 31, 2019. In connection with the Listing, the Company announced its board of directors’ intention to reinstate distributions to the Company’s common stockholders in the amount of $0.40 per share of common stock per year. The reinstated distributions are to be payable as dividends in arrears on a quarterly basis to holders of record on a single quarterly record date. The first dividend was declared on October 1, 2020 and paid on October 15, 2020 in a partial quarterly amount equal to $0.04889 per share of common stock covering the period from the Listing Date through September 30, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2020, from a U.S. federal income tax perspective, 100% of dividends, or $0.04889 per share, represented a return of capital. The dividend declared and paid in January 2021 is a 2021 event for stockholders and the tax treatment of this dividend will be disclosed when information regarding the year ending December 31, 2021 is reported (see Note 14 - Subsequent Events).
Corporate Actions
In order to effect the Listing, the Company took the following corporate actions on August 5, 2020, which resulted in a net reduction of 2.43 for every one share of common stock:
•amended its charter to effect a 9.72-to-1 reverse stock split combining every 9.72 shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, into one share of common stock, par value $0.0972 per share;
•amended its charter to reduce the par value of the shares of common stock outstanding after the reverse stock split from $0.0972 per share to $0.01 per share and rename the common stock “Class A common stock;”
•reclassified 9,750,000 authorized but unissued shares of Class A common stock (equal to approximately three times the number of shares of Class A common stock then issued and outstanding) into shares of Class B common stock, par value $0.01 per share; and
•declared and paid a stock dividend of three shares of Class B common stock to every holder of record of Class A common stock
In connection with the Listing, the Company repurchased 6,672 fractional shares of common stock for $0.3 million.
Listing Impacts
On the Listing Date, the following events impacted the Company’s common shares outstanding:
•65,498 Class B Units were converted into Class A Units, of which 52,398 of these Class A Units then held by the Advisor, were subsequently redeemed for an equal number of shares of Class A common stock (see Note 9 - Related Party Transactions and Arrangements for additional information on the Class B Units). As a result, the Company recorded expense of $1.2 million, resulting in an increase to total stockholders’ equity of $0.9 million and an increase
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
to non-controlling interests of $0.2 million with respect to the remaining 13,100 Class A Units still held by a third party and not redeemed as of December 31, 2020. The remaining Class A Units were subsequently submitted for redemption for an equal number of shares of Class A common stock in September 2020, and the redemption will be completed later in 2021.
•37 Class A Units, which were held by the Advisor, were redeemed for an equal number of shares of Class A common stock.
Equity Offerings
Class A Common Stock
On October 1, 2020, the Company entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement, under which the Company may, from time to time, offer, issue and sell to the public, through its sales agents, shares of Class A common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $250.0 million in an “at the market” equity offering program (the “Common Stock ATM Program”). Under SEC rules, as long as the aggregate market value of outstanding Class A common stock held by non-affiliates, or public float, remains below $75.0 million, the maximum aggregate offering amount of the shares sold pursuant to the Common Stock ATM Program will be $18.7 million. Following the conversion of an additional 3,174,760 shares of the Company’s Class B common stock into Class A common stock on March 1, 2021, the Company’s public float has increased and it expects to be able to offer and sell shares in excess of $18.7 million once the Company files a new prospectus supplement with the SEC.
The Company has not yet sold any shares of Class A common stock through the Common Stock ATM Program, however, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company incurred $0.8 million in costs related to the establishment of the Common Stock ATM Program. Since no proceeds have been received under the Common Stock ATM Program as of December 31, 2020, these costs are currently being deferred, and are recorded in prepaid expenses and other assets in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. Upon receiving proceeds under the Common Stock ATM Program, the Company will reclass the prepaid balance to additional paid in capital in the Company’s consolidated statement of changes equity as a reduction of the gross proceeds received under the Common Stock ATM Program. Until then, the Company will assess the probability of receiving proceeds under the Common Stock ATM Program each reporting period and if it becomes probable that no proceeds will be received, it will expense the amounts deferred
Repurchase Program
The Company’s directors has adopted a resolution authorizing consideration of share repurchases of up to $100 million of shares of Class A common stock over a long-term period following the Listing. Actual repurchases would be reviewed and approved by the Company’s board of directors based on management recommendations taking into consideration all information available at the specific time including the Company’s available cash resources (including the ability to borrow), market capitalization, trading price and alternative uses such as acquisitions. Repurchases would typically be made on the open market in accordance with SEC rules creating a safe harbor for issuer repurchases but may also occur in privately negotiated transactions. No shares have been repurchased during the year ended December 31, 2020.
Terminated Share Repurchase Program
The Company had a share repurchase program (the “SRP”) that enabled qualifying stockholders, subject to certain conditions and limitations, to sell their shares to the Company. The Company suspended the SRP effective September 25, 2018. In connection with the Listing, the SRP automatically terminated. The Company had repurchased 518,409 shares (adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split) at a weighted-average price per share of $53.53 (adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split) on a cumulative basis under the SRP during the period from 2015 to 2018.
Stockholder Rights Plan
In May 2020, the Company announced that its board of directors had approved a stockholder rights plan, but did not take actions to declare a dividend for the plan to become effective. In August 2020, in connection with the Listing and the related bifurcation of common stock into Class A and Class B common stock, the Company entered into an amended and restated rights agreement, which amended and restated the stockholders rights plan approved in May 2020 and declared a dividend payable in August 2020, of one Class A right for and on each share of Class A common stock and one Class B right for and on each share of Class B common stock, in each case, outstanding on the close of business on August 28, 2020 to the stockholders of record on that date. Each right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (“Series A Preferred Stock”), of the Company at a price of $55.00 per one one-thousandth of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, represented by a right, subject to adjustment.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Distribution Reinvestment Plan
Until August 28, 2020, the Company had a distribution reinvestment plan (“DRIP”), pursuant to which, stockholders may elect to reinvest distributions paid in cash in additional shares of common stock. The Company had the right to amend any aspect of the DRIP or terminate the DRIP with ten days’ notice to participants.
An amendment and restatement of the DRIP (the “A&R DRIP”) in connection with the Listing became effective on August 28, 2020. The A&R DRIP allows stockholders who have elected to participate to have dividends paid with respect to all or a portion of their shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock reinvested in additional shares of Class A common stock. Shares received by participants in the A&R DRIP will represent shares that are, at the election of the Company, either (i) acquired directly from the Company, which would issue new shares, at a price based on the average of the high and low sales prices of Class A common stock on the NYSE on the date of reinvestment, or (ii) acquired through open market purchases by the plan administrator at a price based on the weighted-average of the actual prices paid for all of the shares of Class A common stock purchased by the plan administrator with proceeds from reinvested dividends to participants for the related quarter, less a per share processing fee.
Shares issued pursuant to the DRIP or the A&R DRIP are recorded within stockholders’ equity in the consolidated balance sheets in the period dividends or other distributions are declared. During the year ended December 31, 2020, any DRIP transactions were settled through open market transactions and no shares were issued by the Company.
Tender Offers
On December 28, 2020, in response to an unsolicited offer to the Company’s stockholders, the Company commenced a tender offer, (as amended, the “December Offer”) to purchase up to 65,000 shares of Class B common stock for cash at a purchase price equal to $7.00 per share. The Company made the December Offer in order to deter an unsolicited bidder and other potential future bidders that may try to exploit the illiquidity of the Company’s Class B common stock and acquire it from stockholders at prices substantially less than the price at which the Company’s Class A common stock had been trading on the NYSE. The December Offer expired on January 27, 2021. For information on the results of the December Offer, see Note 14 - Subsequent Events.
On June 15, 2018, in response to an unsolicited offer to the Company’s stockholders, the Company commenced a tender offer (the “June Offer”) to purchase up to 500,000 shares of its common stock for cash at a purchase price equal to $12.95 per share. The Company made the June Offer in order to deter an unsolicited bidder and other potential future bidders that may try to exploit the illiquidity of the Company’s common stock and acquire it from stockholders at prices substantially below the then-current Estimated Per-Share NAV. The June Offer expired on July 24, 2018 and, in accordance with the terms of the June Offer, the Company accepted for purchase 210,014 shares of common stock for a total cost of approximately $2.7 million, which was paid in July 2018.
On February 6, 2018, in response to an unsolicited offer to the Company’s stockholders, the Company commenced a tender offer, which was subsequently amended on February 22, 2018 and March 6, 2018 (as amended, the “February Offer”). The Company made the February Offer in order to deter an unsolicited bidder and other potential future bidders that may try to exploit the illiquidity of the Company’s common stock and acquire it from stockholders at prices substantially below the then-current Estimated Per-Share NAV. Under the February Offer, the Company offered to purchase up to 140,000 shares of its common stock for cash at a purchase price equal to $17.03 per share. The February Offer expired on March 20, 2018 and, in accordance with the terms of the February Offer, the Company accepted for purchase 139,993 shares of common stock for a total cost of approximately $2.4 million, which was paid in April 2018.
Note 8 - Commitments and Contingencies
Lease Arrangement - Ground Lease
The Company entered into a ground lease agreement in 2016 related to the acquisition of 1140 Avenue of the Americas under a leasehold interest arrangement and recorded an ROU asset and liability related to this lease upon adoption of ASU 2016-02 during the year ended December 31, 2019. The ground lease is considered an operating lease. In computing the lease liabilities, the Company discounts future lease payments at an estimated incremental borrowing rate at adoption or acquisition if later. The term of the Company’s ground lease is significantly longer than the term of borrowings available to the Company on a fully-collateralized basis. The Company’s estimate of the incremental borrowing rate required significant judgment.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company’s ground lease has a weighted-average remaining lease term of 46.0 years and a discount rate of 8.57%. As of December 31, 2020, the Company’s balance sheet includes an ROU asset and liability of $55.4 million and $54.8 million, respectively, which are included in operating lease right-of-use asset and operating lease liability,
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
respectively, on the consolidated balance sheet. For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company paid cash of $4.7 million for amounts included in the measurement of lease liabilities and recorded expense of $4.9 million on a straight-line basis in accordance with the standard. The lease expense is recorded in property operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The Company did not enter into any additional ground leases as lessee during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The following table reflects the ground lease rent payments due from the Company and a reconciliation to the net present value of those payments as of December 31, 2020:
Litigation and Regulatory Matters
In the ordinary course of business, the Company may become subject to litigation, claims and regulatory matters. There are no material legal or regulatory proceedings pending or known to be contemplated against the Company.
Environmental Matters
In connection with the ownership and operation of real estate, the Company may potentially be liable for costs and damages related to environmental matters. As of December 31, 2020, the Company has not been notified by any governmental authority of any non-compliance, liability or other claim, and is not aware of any other environmental condition that it believes will have a material adverse effect on the results of operations.
Note 9 - Related Party Transactions and Arrangements
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, an entity wholly owned by AR Global Investments, LLC owned 56,091 and 3,656 shares of the Company’s outstanding common stock, respectively.
Fees and Participations Incurred in Connection With the Operations of the Company
Summary of Advisory Agreement
On November 16, 2018, the members of a special committee of the Company’s board of directors approved an amendment and restatement of the Company’s advisory agreement with the Advisor (the “Advisory Agreement”). The Company also entered into a related amendment (the “November 2018 PMA Amendment”) to the Company’s Property Management and Leasing Agreement with the Property Manager. The Advisory Agreement and the November 2018 PMA Amendment both took effect on November 16, 2018. The initial term of the Advisory Agreement ends in July 2030 and will automatically renew for successive five-year terms unless either party gives written notice of its election not to renew at least 180 days prior to the then-applicable expiration date. The Company may only elect not to renew the Advisory Agreement on this basis with the prior approval of at least two-thirds of the Company’s independent directors, and no change of control fee (as defined in the Advisory Agreement) is payable if the Company makes this election.
Asset Management Fees and Variable Management/Incentive Fees
The Advisory Agreement changed the calculation of the base asset management fee to a fixed amount of (x) $0.5 million payable on the first business day of each month plus (y) a variable amount equal to (a) 1.25% of the equity proceeds received after November 16, 2018, divided by (b) 12. The base asset management fee is payable in cash, however the Advisor may elect to receive OP units or common stock of the Company, or a combination thereof, at the Advisor’s election. Equity proceeds are defined as, with respect to any period, cumulative net proceeds of all common and preferred equity and equity-linked securities
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
issued by the Company and its subsidiaries during the period, including: (i) any equity issued in exchange or conversion of exchangeable notes based on the stock price at the date of issuance and convertible equity; (ii) any other issuances of equity, including but not limited to units in the OP (excluding equity-based compensation but including issuances related to an acquisition, investment, joint-venture or partnership); and (iii) effective following the time the Company commences paying a dividend of at least $0.05 per share per annum to its stockholders, which occurred in October 2020), any cumulative Core Earnings (as defined in the Advisory Agreement) in excess of cumulative distributions paid on the Company’s common stock since November 16, 2018, the effective date of the most recent amendment and restatement of the Advisory Agreement.
The Advisory Agreement also entitles the Advisor to an incentive variable management fee. In August 2020, the Company entered into an amendment to the Advisory Agreement to adjust the quarterly thresholds of Core Earnings Per Adjusted Share (as defined in the Advisory Agreement) the Company must reach on a quarterly basis for the Advisor to receive the variable management fee to reflect the impact of the Reverse Stock Split. Prior to this amendment, the variable management fee was equal to (i) the product of (a) the diluted weighted-average outstanding shares of common stock for the calendar quarter (excluding any equity-based awards that are subject to performance metrics that are not currently achieved) multiplied by (b) 15.0% multiplied by (c) the excess of Core Earnings Per Adjusted Share for the previous three-month period in excess of $0.06, plus (ii) the product of (x) the diluted weighted-average outstanding shares of common stock for the calendar quarter (excluding any equity-based awards that are subject to performance metrics that are not currently achieved) multiplied by (y) 10.0% multiplied by (z) the excess of Core Earnings Per Adjusted Share for the previous three-month period in excess of $0.08. Following the August 2020 amendment, the quarterly thresholds of Core Earnings Per Adjusted Share increased from $0.06 and $0.08 to $0.1458 and $0.1944. The variable management fee is payable quarterly in arrears in cash, shares of common stock, units of limited partnership interest in the OP or a combination thereof, at the Advisor’s election. No incentive variable management fees were earned in the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 or 2018.
The Company paid $6.0 million, $6.0 million and $5.6 million in cash asset management fees during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. There were no variable management fees incurred in any of these periods.
Prior to October 1, 2015, for its asset management services provided under the advisory agreement, the Company caused the OP to issue 65,498 Class B Units (52,398 of which were still held by the Advisor at the time of the Listing), after giving effect to the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1 - organization for additional details), in connection with the arrangement. The Class B Units were intended to be profits interests that would vest, and no longer subject to forfeiture, at such time as: (a) the value of the OP’s assets plus all distributions made by the Company to its stockholders equaled or exceeded the total amount of capital contributed by investors plus a 6.0% cumulative, pretax, non-compounded annual return thereon, (the “Economic Hurdle”); (b) any one of the following events occurred concurrently with or subsequently to the achievement of the Economic Hurdle: (i) a listing of the Company’s common stock on a national securities exchange; (ii) a transaction to which the Company or the OP was a party, as a result of which OP units or the Company’s common stock were exchanged for or converted into the right, or the holders of such securities will otherwise be entitled, to receive cash, securities or other property or any combination thereof; or (iii) the termination of the advisory agreement without cause by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Company’s independent directors after the Economic Hurdle had been met; and (c) the Advisor pursuant to the advisory agreement was providing services to the Company immediately prior to the occurrence of an event of the type described in clause (b) above (the “performance condition”).
Pursuant to the limited partnership agreement to the OP, the Advisor was entitled to receive distributions on Class B Units, whether vested or unvested, at the same rate as distributions, if any, received on the Company’s common stock. Such distributions on issued Class B Units, if any, were expensed in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss until the performance condition was considered probable to occur. As a result of the Listing, which satisfied the performance condition, and the prior determination by the Company’s independent directors that the Economic Hurdle had been satisfied, the Class B Units vested in accordance with their terms and were converted into an equal number of Class A Units. In addition, effective at the Listing following this conversion and as approved by the Company’s independent directors, 52,398 of Class A Units, which were then held by the Advisor, were redeemed for an equal number of newly issued shares of Class A common stock consistent with redemption provisions contained in the A&R OP Agreement. As a result of the conversion of all 65,498 Class B Units into Class A Units, the Company recorded a non-cash expense of approximately $1.2 million, which is recorded in vesting and conversion of Class B Units in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2020. The remaining Class A Units, which were still held by a third party and not redeemed as of December 31, 2020 were submitted for redemption for an equal number of shares of Class A common stock in September 2020 and this redemption will be completed later in 2021.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Property Management Fees
Pursuant to the Property Management and Leasing Agreement, dated as of April 24, 2014 (the “PMA”) and prior to the November 2018 PMA Amendment effective on November 16, 2018, except in certain cases where the Company contracted with a third party, the Company paid the Property Manager a property management fee equal to: (i) for non-hotel properties, 4.0% of gross revenues from the properties managed, plus market-based leasing commissions; and (ii) for hotel properties, a market-based fee based on a percentage of gross revenues. The November 2018 PMA Amendment also amended the term of the PMA to make it coterminous with the term of the Advisory Agreement.
Pursuant to the PMA, the Company reimburses the Property Manager for property-level expenses. These reimbursements are not limited in amount and may include reasonable salaries, bonuses, and benefits of individuals employed by the Property Manager, except for the salaries, bonuses, and benefits of individuals who also serve as one of or executive officers or as an executive officer of the Property Manager or any of its affiliates. The Property Manager may also subcontract the performance of its property management and leasing services duties to third parties and pay all or a portion of its property management fee to the third parties with whom it contracts for these services.
On April 13, 2018, in connection with the loan the Company entered into in April 2018, the borrowers entered into a new property management agreement with the Property Manager (the “April 2018 PMA”) to manage the properties secured by the loan. With respect to these properties, the substantive terms of the April 2018 PMA are identical to the terms of the PMA, except that the April 2018 PMA does not include provisions related to the management of the hotels and it has the same term as the PMA prior to the November 2018 PMA Amendment: an initial term of one year that is automatically extended for an unlimited number of successive one-year terms at the end of each year unless any party gives 60 days’ written notice to the other parties of its intention to terminate. On April 13, 2018, concurrently with entering into the April 2018 PMA, the Company and the Property Manager entered into an amendment to the PMA (the “April 2018 PMA Amendment”). Prior to this amendment, the Property Manager had been retained by the Company, pursuant to the PMA, to manage, operate and maintain all the Company’s properties. Following the April 2018 PMA Amendment, any of the Company’s properties that are or become subject to a separate property management agreement with the Property Manager (including the properties secured by the loan, which are subject to the April 2018 PMA) are not subject to the PMA.
On November 16, 2018, the effective date of the November 2018 PMA Amendment, the property management fees the Company pays the Property Manager for non-hotel properties decreased to 3.25% of gross revenues from the properties managed, plus market-based leasing commissions. The November 2018 PMA Amendment also amended the term of the PMA to make it coterminous with the term of the Advisory Agreement.
The Company incurred approximately $1.6 million, $1.3 million and $0.6 million in property management fees during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Professional Fees and Other Reimbursements
Prior to the effectiveness of the Advisory Agreement on November 16, 2018, the Company reimbursed the Advisor’s costs of providing administrative services, subject to the limitation that the Company would not reimburse the Advisor for any amount by which the Company’s total operating expenses at the end of the four preceding fiscal quarters exceeded the greater of (a) 2.0% of average invested assets and (b) 25.0% of net income other than any additions to reserves for depreciation, bad debt, impairments or other similar non-cash expenses and excluding any gain from the sale of assets for that period, unless the Company’s independent directors determined that such excess was justified based on unusual and nonrecurring factors which they deemed sufficient, in which case the excess amount would have been reimbursed to the Advisor in subsequent periods. This reimbursement included reasonable overhead expenses for employees of the Advisor or its affiliates directly involved in the performance of services on behalf of the Company, including the reimbursement of rent expense at certain properties that are both occupied by employees of the Advisor or its affiliates and owned by affiliates of the Advisor. Additionally, prior to the effectiveness of the Advisory Agreement, the Company reimbursed the Advisor for personnel costs in connection with other services; however, the Company did not reimburse the Advisor for personnel costs in connection with services for which the Advisor received acquisition fees, acquisition expense reimbursements or real estate commissions and no reimbursement was made for salaries, bonuses or benefits paid to the Company’s executive officers.
The Advisory Agreement eliminated the previously existing limits on reimbursement by the Company of the Advisor’s expenses and costs based on total operating expenses and added new administrative expense reimbursement limits as follows:
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
•With respect to administrative and overhead expenses of the Advisor, including administrative and overhead expenses of all employees of the Advisor or its affiliates directly or indirectly involved in the performance of services but not including their salaries, wages, and benefits, these costs may not exceed in any fiscal year,
(i) $0.4 million, or
(ii) if the Asset Cost (as defined in the Advisory Agreement) as of the last day of the fiscal quarter immediately preceding the month is equal to or greater than $1.25 billion, (x) the Asset Cost as of the last day of the fiscal quarter multiplied by (y) 0.10%.
•With respect to the salaries, wages, and benefits of all employees of the Advisor or its affiliates directly or indirectly involved in the performance of services (including the Company’s executive officers), these amounts must be comparable to market rates and reimbursements may not exceed, in any fiscal year,
(i) $2.6 million, or
(ii) if the Asset Cost as of the last day of the fiscal year is equal to or greater than $1.25 billion, (x) the Asset Cost as of the last day of the fiscal year multiplied by (y) 0.30%.
The Company began implementing the limits above in the month of December 2018. Accordingly, expenses incurred through November 30, 2018 were subject to limits in effect prior to the effectiveness of the Advisory Agreement. For expenses incurred in December 2018, the Company pro-rated the annual caps noted above to determine the 2018 limits under the Advisory Agreement.
Professional fees and other reimbursements for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $3.6 million, $3.2 million and $4.6 million, respectively. These amounts include reimbursements to the Advisor for administrative, overhead and personnel services, which are subject to the limits noted above, as well as costs associated with directors and officers insurance which are not subject to the those limits.
The amount of expenses included within professional fees and other reimbursements related to administrative, overhead and personnel services provided by and reimbursed to the Advisor for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $3.0 million, of which $0.4 million related to administrative and overhead expenses and $2.6 million were for salaries, wages, and benefits. As a result, the Company has met the limit for the administrative and overhead expenses and salaries, wages, and benefits as described above. The 2019 bonus reimbursement received from the Advisor discussed below was not included in the assessment of whether reimbursement expense limits were met for the year ended December 31, 2020. Total reimbursement expenses for administrative, overhead and personnel services provided by and reimbursed to the Advisor for the year ended December 31, 2019 were $3.0 million, of which $0.4 million related to administrative and overhead expenses and $2.6 million were for salaries, wages, and benefits. Total reimbursement expenses for administrative, overhead and personnel services provided by and reimbursed to the Advisor for the year ended December 31, 2018 were $4.2 million, of which $0.2 million related to administrative and overhead expenses and $4.0 million were for salaries, wages, and benefits.
The amounts shown above reflect that the Company met the limit for the administrative and overhead expenses and salaries, wages, and benefits described above for each of the periods covered. The reimbursable expenses incurred by the Advisor during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 that were subject to the limits as described above exceeded the limits by $1.1 million, $0.9 million and $0.1 million, respectively. These amounts in excess of the limits were not reimbursed to the Advisor and therefore were not incurred as expenses by the Company.
As part of the reimbursement, with respect to the salaries, wages, and benefits of all employees of the Advisor or its affiliates, the Company reimbursed approximately $0.9 million in 2019 to the Advisor or its affiliates for bonuses of employees of the Advisor or its affiliates who provided administrative services during the year, prorated for the time spent working on matters relating to the Company. The Company does not reimburse the Advisor or its affiliates for any bonus amounts relating to time dedicated to the Company by Edward M. Weil, Jr., the Company’s chief executive officer. The Advisor formally awarded 2019 bonuses to employees of the Advisor or its affiliates in September 2020 (the “2019 Bonus Awards”). The original $0.9 million estimate for bonuses recorded and paid to the Advisor in 2019 exceeded the cash portion of the 2019 Bonus Awards that were to be paid to employees of the Advisor or its affiliates by $0.4 million and that were to be reimbursed by the Company. As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded a receivable from the Advisor of $0.4 million in prepaid expenses and other assets on the consolidated balance sheet and a corresponding reduction in general and administrative expenses. Pursuant to authorization by the Company’s independent directors, the $0.4 million receivable is payable to the Company over a 10-month period from January 2021 through October 2021.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Reimbursements for the cash portion of 2020 bonuses to employees of the Advisor or its affiliates continue to be expensed and reimbursed on a monthly basis during 2020 in accordance with the cash bonus estimates provided by the Advisor. Generally, prior to the 2019 Bonus Awards, employee bonuses have been formally awarded to employees of the Advisor or its affiliates in March as an all-cash award and paid out by the Advisor in the year subsequent to the year in which services were rendered to the Company.
The following table details amounts incurred, waived and payable in connection with the Company’s operations-related services described above as of and for the periods presented:
_________
(1) Financing coordination fees are included as deferred financing costs within mortgage notes payable, net and leasing commissions are included within the deferred leasing costs, net on the consolidated balance sheets, respectively.
(2) Beginning on April 1, 2019, property management fees due to the Property Manager are no longer adjusted for reimbursable expenses paid by the Company to third-party property managers.
(3) Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, are included in general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company recorded a reduction of general and administrative expenses in the amount of $204,000 related to the reversal of a payable balance at December 31, 2018 due to American National Stock Transfer, LLC, a subsidiary of RCS Capital Corporation (“RCAP”). The payable balance was related to costs incurred and accrued due to RCAP which, prior to its bankruptcy filing, was under common control with the Advisor.
(4) Included in prepaid expenses and other assets on the consolidated balance sheets, respectively.
(5) Included in accounts payable, accrued expense and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet.
(6) Included in general and administrative expenses. The $0.4 million relates to reimbursements from the Advisor for 2019 bonus compensation that was not paid out based on changes to compensation estimates.
Listing Arrangements
Listing Note
Pursuant to the A&R OP Agreement, as defined below, in the event the Company’s shares of common stock was listed on a national exchange, the OP was obligated to distribute to the Special Limited Partner a promissory note in an aggregate amount (the “Listing Amount”) equal to 15.0% of the difference (to the extent the result is a positive number) between:
•the sum of (i) (A) the average closing price of the shares of Class A common stock over the Measurement Period (as defined below) multiplied by the number of shares of common stock issued and outstanding as of the Listing, plus (B) the sum of all distributions or dividends (from any source) paid by the Company to its stockholders prior to the Listing; and (ii) (X) the aggregate purchase price (without deduction for organization and offering expenses or any other underwriting discount, commissions or offering expenses) of the initial public offering of the Company’s common stock, plus (Y) the total amount of cash that, if distributed to the stockholders who purchased shares of the Company’s common stock in the initial public offering, would have provided those stockholders with a 6.0% cumulative, non-compounded, pre-tax annual return on the aggregate purchase price of shares sold in the initial public offering through the listing, minus any distributions of net sales proceeds made to the Special Limited Partner prior to the end of the Measurement Period (as defined below).
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Effective at the Listing, the OP entered into a listing note agreement with respect to this obligation (the “Listing Note”) with the Special Limited Partner. The Listing Note evidences the OP’s obligation to distribute to the Special Limited Partner the Listing Amount, which will be calculated based on the Market Value of the Company’s common stock. Until the end of the 30 consecutive trading dates commencing on the 180th day after all of the shares of the Company’s Class B common stock have fully converted into shares of Class A common stock and are eligible for trading on the NYSE (the “Measurement Period”), the final value of the Listing Note will not be determinable. Until the amount of the Listing Note can be determined, the Listing Note will be considered a liability which will be marked to fair value at each reporting date, with changes in the fair value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The fair value of the Listing Note at issuance on the Listing Date (August 18, 2020) and at December 31, 2020 was nominal and was determined using a Monte Carlo simulation, which uses a combination of observable and unobservable inputs. The fair value of the Listing Note, if any, will be paid at the end of the Measurement Period. The Special Partner has the right to receive distributions of Net Sales Proceeds (as defined in the Listing Note), until the Listing Note is paid in full; provided that, the Special Limited Partner has the right, but not the obligation, to convert its entire special limited partnership interest in the OP into Class A Units.
Multi-Year Outperformance Agreement
On the Listing Date, the limited partnership agreement of the OP was amended and restated in connection with the effectiveness of the Listing (as so amended and restated, the “A&R OP Agreement”). The amendments effected to the limited partnership agreement of the OP pursuant to the A&R OP Agreement generally reflect provisions more consistent with the agreements of limited partnership of other operating partnerships controlled by real estate investment trusts with securities that are publicly traded and listed and make other changes in light of the transactions entered into by the Company in connection with the Listing. The A&R OP Agreement sets forth the terms of a new class of units of limited partnership designated as “LTIP Units” (“LTIP Units”), which includes the Master LTIP Unit (the “Master LTIP Unit”) issued to the Advisor on August 18, 2020 pursuant to a multi-year outperformance award agreement entered into with the Advisor (the “2020 OPP”).
In addition, the A&R OP Agreement describes the procedures pursuant to which holders of units of limited partnership designated as “Class A Units” (“Class A Units”) may redeem all or a portion of their Class A Units on a one-for-one basis for, at the Company’s election, shares of Class A common stock or the cash equivalent thereof. The A&R OP Agreement also requires the Company, upon the request of a holder of Class A Units but subject to certain conditions and limitations, to register under the Securities Act, the issuance or resale of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon redemption of Class A Units in accordance with the A&R OP Agreement.
On the Listing Date, the Company, the OP and the Advisor entered into the 2020 OPP pursuant to which a performance-based equity award was granted to the Advisor. Initially, the award under the 2020 OPP was in the form of a single Master LTIP Unit. On September 30, 2020, the Master LTIP Unit automatically converted into 4,012,841 LTIP Units in accordance with its terms. For additional information on the 2020 OPP, see Note 11 - Equity-Based Compensation.
Termination Fees Payable to the Advisor
The Advisory Agreement requires the Company to pay a termination fee to the Advisor if the Advisory Agreement is terminated prior to the expiration of the initial term in certain limited scenarios. The termination fee will be payable to the Advisor if either the Company or the Advisor exercises the right to terminate the Advisory Agreement in connection with the consummation of the first change of control (as defined in the Advisory Agreement). The termination fee is equal to
•$15.0 million plus an amount equal to the product of
(i) three (if the termination was effective on or prior to June 30, 2020) or four (if the termination is effective after June 30, 2020), multiplied by
(ii) applicable Subject Fees.
The “Subject Fees” are equal to (i) the product of
•(a) 12, multiplied by (b) the actual base management fee for the month immediately prior to the month in which the Advisory Agreement is terminated, plus
(ii) the product of (x) four multiplied by (y) the actual variable management fee for the quarter immediately prior to the quarter in which the Advisory Agreement is terminated, plus,
(iii) without duplication, the annual increase in the base management fee resulting from the cumulative net proceeds of any equity issued by the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of the fiscal quarter immediately prior to the fiscal quarter in which the Advisory Agreement is terminated.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
In connection with the termination or expiration of the Advisory Agreement, the Advisor will be entitled to receive (in addition to any termination fee) all amounts then accrued and owing to the Advisor, including an amount equal to then-present fair market value of its shares of the Company’s common stock and interest in the OP.
Note 10 - Economic Dependency
Under various agreements, the Company has engaged or will engage the Advisor, its affiliates and entities under common control with the Advisor to provide certain services that are essential to the Company, including asset management services, supervision of the management and leasing of properties owned by the Company, asset acquisition and disposition decisions, as well as other administrative responsibilities for the Company including accounting services, transaction management services and investor relations.
As a result of these relationships, the Company is dependent upon the Advisor and its affiliates. In the event that the Advisor and its affiliates are unable to provide the Company with the respective services, the Company will be required to find alternative providers of these services.
Note 11 - Equity-Based Compensation
Equity Plans
Restricted Share Plan
Prior to the Listing, the Company had an employee and director incentive restricted share plan (as amended, the “RSP”). The RSP provided for the automatic grant of the number of restricted shares equal to $30,000 divided by the then-current Estimated Per-Share NAV, which were made without any further approval by the Company’s board of directors or the stockholders, after initial election to the board of directors and after each annual stockholder meeting, with such restricted shares vesting annually over a five-year period following the grant date in increments of 20.0% per annum. The RSP also provided the Company with the ability to grant awards of restricted shares to the Company’s board of directors, officers and employees (if the Company ever has employees), employees of the Advisor and its affiliates, employees of entities that provide services to the Company, directors of the Advisor or of entities that provide services to the Company, certain consultants to the Company and the Advisor and its affiliates or to entities that provide services to the Company.
2020 Equity Plan
Effective at the Listing, the Company’s independent directors acting as a group adopted an equity plan for the Advisor (the “Advisor Plan”) and an equity plan for individuals (the “Individual Plan” and together with the Advisor Plan, the “2020 Equity Plan”). The Advisor Plan is substantially similar to the Individual Plan, except with respect to the eligible participants. Awards under the Individual Plan is open to the Company’s directors, officers and employees (if the Company ever has employees), employees, officers and directors of the Advisor and as a general matter, employees of affiliates of the Advisor that provide services to the Company. Awards under the Advisor Plan may only be granted to the Advisor and its affiliates (including any person to whom the Advisor subcontracts substantially all of responsibility for directing or performing the day-to-day business affairs of the Company).
The 2020 Equity Plan succeeded and replaced the existing RSP. Following the effectiveness of the 2020 Equity Plan at the Listing, no further awards will be granted under the RSP; provided, however, any outstanding awards under the RSP, such as unvested restricted shares held by the Company’s independent directors, will remain in effect in accordance with their terms and the terms of the RSP, until all those awards are exercised, settled, forfeited, canceled, expired or otherwise terminated. The Company accounts for forfeitures when they occur. While the RSP provided only for awards of restricted shares, the 2020 Equity Plan has been expanded to also permit awards of restricted stock units, stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards, LTIP Units and other equity awards. In addition, the 2020 Equity Plan eliminates the “automatic grant” provisions of the RSP that dictated the terms and amount of the annual award of restricted shares to independent directors. Going forward, grants to independent directors will be made in accordance with the Company’s new director compensation program, as described below under “-Director Compensation.” The 2020 Equity Plan has a term of 10 years, expiring August 18, 2030. The number of shares of the Company’s capital stock that may be issued or subject to awards under the 2020 Equity Plan, in the aggregate, is equal to 20.0% of the Company’s outstanding shares of common stock on a fully diluted basis at any time. Shares subject to awards under the Individual Plan reduce the number of shares available for awards under the Advisor Plan on a one-for-one basis and vice versa.
Director Compensation
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Effective on the Listing Date, the Company’s independent directors approved a change to the Company’s director compensation program. Starting with the annual award of restricted shares to be made in connection with the Company’s 2021 annual meeting of stockholders, the amount of the annual award will be increased from $30,000 to $65,000. No other changes were made to the Company’s director compensation program.
Restricted Shares
Restricted share awards entitle the recipient to receive shares of common stock from the Company under terms that provide for vesting over a specified period of time. Restricted share awards that have been granted to the Company’s directors provide for accelerated vesting of the portion of the unvested restricted shares scheduled to vest in the year of the recipient’s voluntary termination or the failure to be re-elected to the Company’s board of directors. There have not been any grants of restricted shares to other individuals as permitted under the 2020 Equity Plan.
Restricted shares may not, in general, be sold or otherwise transferred until restrictions are removed and the shares have vested. Holders of restricted shares receive cash dividends on the same basis as dividends paid on shares of common stock, if any, prior to the time that the restrictions on the restricted shares have lapsed and thereafter. Any dividends payable in shares of common stock are subject to the same restrictions as the underlying restricted shares.
The following table displays restricted share award activity during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 and has been retroactively adjusted for the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1 - Organization for additional details):
(1) Represents fractional shares redeemed in connection with the conversion of the first tranche of shares of Class B common stock to shares of Class A common stock that occurred on December 16, 2020.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had $0.2 million and $0.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost, respectively, related to unvested restricted share awards granted under the Company’s RSP. As of December 31, 2020, the cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 3.06 years. Restricted share awards are expensed in accordance with the service period required. Compensation expense related to restricted share awards was approximately $96,000, $86,000 and $17,000 for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Compensation expense related to restricted share awards is recorded as general and administrative expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss.
Multi-Year Outperformance Award
On the Listing Date, the Company, the Company, the OP and the Advisor entered into the 2020 OPP pursuant to which a performance-based equity award was granted to the Advisor. The award was based on the recommendation of the Company’s compensation consultant, and approved by the Company’s independent directors, acting as a group.
Initially, the award under the 2020 OPP was in the form of a single Master LTIP Unit. On September 30, 2020, the 30th trading day following the Listing Date, in accordance with its terms, the Master LTIP Unit automatically converted into 4,012,841 LTIP Units, equal to the quotient of $50.0 million divided by $12.46, which represented the average closing price of one share of Class A common stock over the ten consecutive trading days immediately prior to September 30, 2020. This
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
number of LTIP Units represents the maximum number of LTIP Units that may be earned by the Advisor during a performance period ending on the earliest of (i) August 18, 2023, (ii) the effective date of any Change of Control (as defined in the 2020 OPP) and (iii) the effective date of any termination of the Advisor’s service as advisor of the Company.
For accounting purposes, July 19, 2020 is treated as the grant date (the “Grant Date”), because the Company’s independent directors approved the 2020 OPP and the award made thereunder on that date. The Company engaged third party specialists, who used a Monte Carlo simulation, to calculate the fair value as of the date the Master LTIP Unit converted (September 30, 2020), on which date the fair value was also fixed. The total fair value of the LTIP Units of $25.8 million is being recorded over the requisite service period of 3.07 years beginning on the Grant Date and ending on the third anniversary of the Listing Date (August 18, 2023). As a result, during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded equity-based compensation expense related to the LTIP Units of $3.8 million, which is recorded in equity-based compensation in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had $22.0 million of unrecognized compensation expense related to the LTIP Units, which is expected to be recognized over a period of 2.6 years.
The other half of the LTIP Units (the “Absolute TSR LTIP Units”) are eligible to be earned as of the last day of the performance period if the Company achieves total stockholder return (“TSR”) measured on an absolute basis for the performance period as follows:
If the Company’s absolute TSR is more than 12% but less than 18%, or more than 18% but less than 24%, the percentage of the Absolute TSR LTIP Units earned is determined using linear interpolation as between those tiers, respectively.
Half of the LTIP Units (the “Relative TSR LTIP Units”) are eligible to be earned as of the last day of the performance period if the amount, expressed in terms of basis points, whether positive or negative, by which the Company’s absolute TSR for the performance period exceeds the average TSR for the performance period of a peer group consisting of Empire State Realty Trust, Inc., Franklin Street Properties Corp., Paramount Group, Inc. and Clipper Realty Inc. as follows:
If the relative TSR excess is between -600 bps and zero bps, or between zero bps and +600 bps, the percentage of the Relative TSR LTIP Units earned is determined using linear interpolation as between those tiers, respectively.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Until an LTIP Unit is earned, the holder of the LTIP Unit is entitled to distributions on the LTIP Unit equal to 10% of the distributions made per Class A Unit (other than distribution of sale proceeds). Distributions on Class A Units equal dividends paid on Class A common stock. Distributions paid with respect to an LTIP Unit are not subject to forfeiture, even if the LTIP Unit is ultimately forfeited because it is not earned in accordance with the 2020 OPP. In light of the automatic conversion feature of the Master LTIP Unit, the Advisor was entitled to receive a distribution equal to the product of 10% of the distributions made per Class A Unit during the period from the Listing Date (August 18, 2020) to September 30, 2020 (if any) multiplied by the number of LTIP Units issued when the Master LTIP Unit automatically converted into LTIP Units, however, no distributions were paid on Class A Units during this period. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded $20,000 of distributions related to the LTIP Units. After an LTIP Unit is earned, the holder will be entitled to a priority catch-up distribution per earned LTIP Unit equal to the aggregate distributions paid on a Class A Unit during the performance period, less the aggregate distributions paid on the LTIP Unit during the performance period. As of the last day of the performance period, the earned LTIP Units will become entitled to receive the same distributions as are paid on Class A Units. At the time the Advisor’s capital account with respect to an LTIP Unit that is earned and vested is economically equivalent to the average capital account balance of a Class A Unit, the Advisor, as the holder of the LTIP Unit in its sole discretion, will, in accordance with the A&R OP Agreement, be entitled to convert the LTIP Unit into a Class A Unit, which may, in turn, be redeemed on a one-for-one basis for, at the Company’s election, a share of Class A common stock or the cash equivalent thereof.
If the last day of the performance period is the effective date of a Change of Control or a termination of the Advisor without Cause (as defined in the Advisory Agreement), then the number of LTIP Units earned will be calculated based on actual performance as of (and including) the effective date of the Change of Control or termination (as applicable), with the hurdles for calculating absolute TSR pro-rated to the extent that the performance period lasted less than three years but without pro-rating the number of Absolute TSR LTIP Units or Relative TSR LTIP Units the Advisor would be eligible to earn to reflect the shortened period.
If the last day of the performance period is the effective date of a termination of the Advisor with Cause, then the number of LTIP Units earned will also be calculated based on actual performance as of (and including) the effective date of the termination based on the performance through the last trading day prior to the effective date of the termination, with the hurdles for calculating absolute TSR pro-rated to the extent that the performance period lasted less than three years and with the number of Absolute TSR LTIP Units or Relative TSR LTIP Units the Advisor would be eligible to earn also pro-rated to reflect the shortened period.
The award of LTIP Units under the 2020 OPP is administered by the compensation committee, provided that any of the compensation committee’s powers can be exercised instead by the Company’s board of directors if the board of directors so elects. Following the last day of the performance period, the compensation committee is responsible for determining the number of Absolute TSR LTIP Units and Relative TSR LTIP Units earned, as calculated by an independent consultant engaged by the compensation committee and as approved by the compensation committee in its reasonable and good faith discretion. The valuation model used to calculate the fair value utilizes several significant assumptions, such as stock price volatility, dividend yield, and correlation estimate. The compensation committee also must approve the transfer of any Absolute TSR LTIP Units and Relative TSR LTIP Units (or Class A Units into which they may be converted in accordance with the terms of the A&R OP Agreement).
LTIP Units earned as of the last day of the performance period will also become vested as of the last day of the performance period. Any LTIP Units that are not earned and vested after the compensation committee makes the required determination will automatically and without notice be forfeited without the payment of any consideration by the Company or the OP, effective as of the last day of the performance period.
Other Share-Based Compensation
The Company may issue common stock in lieu of cash to pay fees earned by the Company’s board of directors at the respective director’s election. There are no restrictions on the shares issued. There were no shares of common stock issued in lieu of cash during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
Note 12 - Net Loss Per Share
The following is a summary of the basic and diluted net loss per share computation for the periods presented and has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1 - Organization for additional details):
Diluted net loss per share assumes the vesting or conversion of restricted shares and Class A Units into an equivalent number of unrestricted shares of Class A common stock, unless the effect is antidilutive. If dilutive, conditionally issuable shares relating to the 2020 OPP (see Note 11 - Equity-Based Compensation for additional information) would be included in the computation of fully diluted EPS on a weighted-average basis for the year ended December 31, 2020 based on shares that would be issued if the balance sheet date were the end of the measurement period. No LTIP Unit share equivalents were included in the computation for the year ended December 31, 2020 because no LTIP Units would have been earned based on the trading price of Class A common stock including any cumulative dividends paid (since inception of the 2020 OPP) at December 31, 2020. There was also no impact from any of the Company’s potentially dilutive securities during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 due to the net losses in all periods.
The Company had the following weighted-average common share equivalents for the periods indicated, which were excluded from the calculation of diluted net loss per share attributable to stockholders as the effect would have been anti-dilutive. The amounts in the table below have been retroactively adjusted to reflect the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1 - Organization for additional details):
(1) There were 5,516, 5,433, and 5,196 unvested restricted shares outstanding as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(2) Formerly known as OP Units. There were 13,100, 37 and 37 Class A Units outstanding as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(3) There were no Class B Units outstanding as of December 31, 2020 due to their vesting and conversion on the Listing Date (see Note 7 - Stockholders’ Equity, for additional information). There were 65,498 Class B Units outstanding as of December 31, 2019 and 2018.
(4) There were 4,012,841 LTIP Units outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and none outstanding in prior periods as they were issued in 2020 (see Note 11 - Equity-Based Compensation for additional information).
Note 13 - Quarterly Results (Unaudited)
Presented below is a summary of the unaudited quarterly financial information for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
__________
(1) Retroactively adjusted for the effects of the Reverse Stock Split (see Note 1 - Organization).
(2) During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company recorded an adjustment to reduce interest expense by approximately $0.6 million related to certain historical errors that occurred in the first, second and third quarters of 2020. The amounts, which totaled $0.1 million, $0.2 million, and $0.3 million for the first, second, and third quarters of 2020, respectively, were incorrectly calculated, resulting in an overstatement of interest expense in those periods. During the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company also recorded an adjustment to increase depreciation expense by approximately $0.4 million related to certain construction in progress projects that should have been placed into service in earlier periods, including the first, second, and third quarter of 2020 (less than $0.1 million impact) and $0.3 million related to the 2019 annual period. The Company concluded that the errors noted above were not material to the current period or any historical periods presented and, accordingly, the Company adjusted the amounts on a cumulative basis in the fourth quarter of 2020.
(3) During the third quarter of 2020, the Company completed its Listing and incurred $1.3 million in listing expenses and a $1.2 million charge relating to the vesting and conversion of Class B Units.
(4) During the third and fourth quarters of 2020, the Company fully reserved against receivables from certain tenants after concluding that it was no longer probable they would collect substantially all of the amounts due, which was reflected as a reduction in revenue for the third and fourth quarter of $1.1 million and $7.4 million, respectively. Further, the Multi-Year Outperformance Award (see Note 11 - Equity-Based Compensation) was granted on July 19, 2020 and resulted in additional equity-based compensation charges of $1.7 million and $2.1 million for the third and fourth quarter of 2020, respectively.
Note 14 - Subsequent Events
The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and determined that there have not been any events that have occurred that would require adjustments to, or disclosures in, the consolidated financial statements.
Quarterly Dividend
On January 1, 2021, the Company declared a dividend of $0.10 per share on each share of its Class A common stock and Class B common stock. This dividend was paid on January 15, 2021 in the aggregate amount of $1.3 million.
Tender Offer
In December 2020, the Company commenced a tender offer to purchase up to 65,000 shares of Class B common stock for cash at a purchase price equal to $7.00 per share. In January 2021, the Company purchased approximately 26,236 shares of Class B common stock following the expiration of the tender offer for a total cost to us of approximately $0.2 million, including fees and expenses relating to the tender offer, which was funded with cash on hand.
Leasing Activity
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
December 31, 2020
In January 2021, a significant tenant, Knotel, (a tenant in both our 123 William Street and 9 Times Square properties), filed for bankruptcy and all leases with the Company were terminated effective January 31, 2021. As a result of these terminations, the Company will write-off all related intangibles, including an estimated $1.3 million of deferred leasing costs, which will be included in depreciation and amortization expense in our consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This tenant was experiencing financial difficulties as a result of COVID-19 and was placed on a cash basis in 2020. Contract rent and deferred rent receivables of $0.4 million and $2.9 million had been fully reserved as of December 31, 2020.
NEW YORK CITY REIT, INC.
REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
SCHEDULE III
DECEMBER 31, 2020
(dollar amounts in thousands)
____________
(1)Acquired intangible assets allocated to individual properties in the amount of $98.1 million are not reflected in the table above.
(2)The gross tax basis of aggregate land, buildings and improvements as of December 31, 2020 is $744.6 million (unaudited).
(3)The accumulated depreciation column excludes $47.2 million of amortization associated with acquired intangible assets.
(4)Each of the properties has a depreciable life of: 40 years for buildings, 15 years for land improvements and five to seven years for fixtures.
(5)The land underlying this property is subject to a land lease. The related Right-of-use asset are separately recorded. See Note 8 - Commitments and Contingencies for additional information.
A summary of activity for real estate and accumulated depreciation for the year ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 5adf1da342f3ff5055e3bdcce159c2de
- Approx. Length: 34557 characters