# Context

Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
Information required by this item is set forth in the Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and Selected Quarterly Income Statements, which is incorporated by reference into this item.
2020 Form 10-K 100
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT’S EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
The Management of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington or the Company) is responsible for the financial information and representations contained in the Consolidated Financial Statements and other sections of this report. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In all material respects, they reflect the substance of transactions that should be included based on informed judgments, estimates, and currently available information. Management maintains a system of internal accounting controls, which includes the careful selection and training of qualified personnel, appropriate segregation of responsibilities, communication of written policies and procedures, and a broad program of internal audits. The costs of the controls are balanced against the expected benefits. During 2020, the audit committee of the board of directors met regularly with Management, Huntington’s internal auditors, and the independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, to review the scope of their audits and to discuss the evaluation of internal accounting controls and financial reporting matters. The independent registered public accounting firm and the internal auditors have free access to, and meet confidentially with, the audit committee to discuss appropriate matters. Also, Huntington maintains a disclosure review committee. This committee’s purpose is to design and maintain disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that material information relating to the financial and operating condition of Huntington is properly reported to its chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief auditor, and the audit committee of the board of directors in connection with the preparation and filing of periodic reports and the certification of those reports by the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer.
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT’S ASSESSMENT OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Huntington’s Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020. In making this assessment, Management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (2013). Based on that assessment, Management concluded that, as of December 31, 2020, the Company’s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. The Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on the next page.
Stephen D. Steinour - Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer
Zachary Wasserman - Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 26, 2021
101 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of changes in shareholders’ equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for the allowance for credit losses as of January 1, 2020.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management’s Assessment of Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting
2020 Form 10-K 102
includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Valuation of Allowance for Credit Losses - General Reserve
As described in Notes 1 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements, management’s estimate of the allowance for credit losses includes a general reserve component which consists of various risk-profile reserve components. The risk-profile components consider items unique to the Company’s structure, policies, processes, and portfolio composition. The general reserve also considers qualitative measurements and assessments of the Company’s loan portfolios including, but not limited to, economic uncertainty, concentrations, portfolio composition, industry comparisons, and internal review functions.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to the valuation of the general reserve component of the allowance for credit losses is a critical audit matter are (i) the valuation involved the application of significant judgment and estimation by management when determining the general reserve calculation, which in turn led to a high degree of auditor judgment and subjectivity in performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence relating to the assumptions used in the general reserve, (ii) the significant audit effort in evaluating management’s methodology, significant assumptions and calculations relating to the general reserve component, and (iii) the audit effort included the involvement of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to valuation of the Company’s general reserve component of allowance for credit losses. These procedures also included, among others, testing management’s process for determining the general reserve component, including evaluating the appropriateness of management’s methodology, testing the completeness and accuracy of data utilized by management and evaluating the reasonableness of significant assumptions relating to the general reserve component. Evaluating management’s assumptions relating to the general reserve component involved evaluating whether the assumptions used were reasonable considering portfolio composition, relevant market data, and indicators of economic uncertainty. Professionals with specialized skill and knowledge were used to assist in evaluating the appropriateness of management’s methodology, significant assumptions and calculations relating to the general reserve component.
Columbus, Ohio
February 26, 2021
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2015.
103 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(1)Amounts represent loans for which Huntington has elected the fair value option. See Note 20.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
2020 Form 10-K 104
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Consolidated Statements of Income
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
105 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
2020 Form 10-K 106
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
107 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
108 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Nature of Operations - Huntington Bancshares Incorporated (Huntington or the Company) is a multi-state diversified regional bank holding company organized under Maryland law in 1966 and headquartered in Columbus, Ohio. Through its subsidiaries, including its bank subsidiary, The Huntington National Bank (the Bank), Huntington is engaged in providing full-service commercial, small business, consumer banking services, mortgage banking services, automobile financing, recreational vehicle and marine financing, equipment leasing, investment management, trust services, brokerage services, insurance programs, and other financial products and services. Huntington’s banking offices are located in Ohio, Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Indiana, West Virginia, and Kentucky. Select financial services and other activities are also conducted in various other states. International banking services are available through the headquarters office in Columbus, Ohio.
Basis of Presentation - The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Huntington and its majority-owned subsidiaries and are presented in accordance with GAAP. All intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated in consolidation. Entities in which Huntington holds a controlling financial interest are consolidated. For a voting interest entity, a controlling financial interest is generally where Huntington holds, directly or indirectly, more than 50 percent of the outstanding voting shares. For a variable interest entity (VIE), a controlling financial interest is where Huntington has the power to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and has an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE. For consolidated entities where Huntington holds less than a 100% interest, Huntington recognizes non-controlling interest (included in shareholders’ equity) for the equity held by minority shareholders and non-controlling profit or loss (included in noninterest expense) for the portion of the entity’s earnings attributable to minority interests. Investments in companies that are not consolidated are accounted for using the equity method when Huntington has the ability to exert significant influence. Investments in non-marketable equity securities for which Huntington does not have the ability to exert significant influence are generally accounted for using the cost method adjusted for impairment and other changes in observable prices. Investments in private investment partnerships that are accounted for under the equity method or the cost method are included in other assets and Huntington’s earnings in equity investments are included in other noninterest income. Investments accounted for under the cost and equity methods are periodically evaluated for impairment.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that significantly affect amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Huntington utilizes processes that involve the use of significant estimates and the judgments of management in determining the amount of its allowance for credit losses, income taxes, as well as fair value measurements of investment securities, derivative instruments, goodwill, other intangible assets, pension assets and liabilities, short-term borrowings, mortgage servicing rights, and loans held for sale. As with any estimate, actual results could differ from those estimates.
For statements of cash flows purposes, cash and cash equivalents are defined as the sum of cash and due from banks and interest-bearing deposits at Federal Reserve Bank.
Resale and Repurchase Agreements - Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements to repurchase are treated as collateralized financing transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest. The fair value of collateral either received from or provided to a third-party is monitored and additional collateral is obtained or requested to be returned to Huntington in accordance with the agreement.
Securities - Securities purchased with the intention of recognizing short-term profits or which are actively bought and sold are classified as trading account securities and reported at fair value. The unrealized gains or losses on trading account securities are recorded in other noninterest income. Debt securities purchased that Huntington has the positive intent and ability to hold to their maturity are classified as held-to-maturity securities. Held-to-maturity securities are recorded at amortized cost. All other debt securities are classified as available for sale
2020 Form 10-K 109
securities. Available-for-sale securities are recognized and measured at fair value with any change in the fair value recognized in other comprehensive income. All equity securities are classified as other securities.
Securities transactions are recognized on the trade date (the date the order to buy or sell is executed). The carrying value plus any related accumulated OCI balance of sold securities is used to compute realized gains and losses. Interest on securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts using the effective interest method over the period to maturity, is included in interest income.
Non-marketable equity securities include stock held for membership and regulatory purposes, such as FHLB stock and FRB stock. These securities are accounted for at cost, evaluated for impairment, and are included in other securities. Other securities also include mutual funds and other marketable equity securities. These securities are carried at fair value, with changes in fair value recognized in other noninterest income.
Loans and Leases - Loans for which Huntington has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future, or until maturity or payoff, except loans for which the fair value option has been elected, are carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of charge-offs, unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, premiums and discounts, and unearned income. Direct financing leases are reported at the aggregate of lease payments receivable and estimated residual values, net of unearned and deferred income, and any initial direct costs incurred to originate these leases. Interest income is accrued as earned using the interest method. Huntington defers the fees it receives from the origination of loans and leases, as well as the direct costs of those activities. Huntington also acquires loans at premiums and/or discounts to their contractual values. Huntington amortizes loan discounts, premiums, and net loan origination fees and costs over the contractual lives of the related loans using the effective interest method.
Troubled debt restructurings are loans for which the original contractual terms have been modified to provide a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Loan modifications are considered TDRs when the concessions provided are not available to the borrower through either normal channels or other sources. However, not all loan modifications are TDRs. Modifications resulting in troubled debt restructurings may include changes to one or more terms of the loan, including but not limited to, a change in interest rate, an extension of the repayment period, a reduction in payment amount, and partial forgiveness or deferment of principal or accrued interest.
Impairment of the residual values of direct financing leases is evaluated quarterly, with impairment arising if the expected fair value is less than the carrying amount. Huntington assesses net investments in leases (including residual values) for impairment and recognizes impairment losses in accordance with the impairment guidance for financial instruments. As such, net investments in leases may be reduced by an allowance for credit losses, with changes recognized as provision expense.
For leased equipment, the residual component of a direct financing lease represents the estimated fair value of the leased equipment at the end of the lease term. Huntington uses industry data, historical experience, and independent appraisals to establish these residual value estimates. Additional information regarding product life cycle, product upgrades, as well as insight into competing products are obtained through relationships with industry contacts and are factored into residual value estimates where applicable.
Loans Held for Sale - Loans in which Huntington does not have the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future are classified as loans held for sale. Loans held for sale are carried at (a) the lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell, or (b) fair value where the fair value option is elected. The fair value option is generally elected for mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell to facilitate hedging of the loans. The fair value of such loans is estimated based on the inputs that include prices of mortgage backed securities adjusted for other variables such as, interest rates, expected credit defaults and market discount rates. The adjusted value reflects the price we expect to receive from the sale of such loans.
Nonaccrual and Past Due Loans - Loans are considered past due when the contractual amounts due with respect to principal and interest are not received within 30 days of the contractual due date.
Any loan in any portfolio may be placed on nonaccrual status prior to the policies described below when collection of principal or interest is in doubt. When a borrower with debt is discharged in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy and the debt is not reaffirmed by the borrower, the loan is determined to be collateral dependent and placed on nonaccrual status, unless there is a co-borrower or the repayment is likely to occur based on objective evidence.
110 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
All classes within the C&I and CRE portfolios are placed on nonaccrual status at 90-days past due. First-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due. Junior-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status at the earlier of 120-days past due or when the related first-lien loan has been identified as nonaccrual. Automobile, RV and marine and other consumer loans are placed on non-accrual, if not charged off, when the loan is 120-days past due. Residential mortgage loans are placed on nonaccrual status at 150-days past due, with the exception of residential mortgages guaranteed by government agencies which continue to accrue interest at the rate guaranteed by the government agency.
For all classes within all loan portfolios, when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, any accrued interest income, to the extent it is recognized in the current year, is reversed and charged to interest income.
For all classes within all loan portfolios, cash receipts on NALs are applied against principal until the loan or lease has been collected in full, including the charged-off portion, after which time any additional cash receipts are recognized as interest income. However, for secured non-reaffirmed debt in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy, payments are applied to principal and interest when the borrower has demonstrated a capacity to continue payment of the debt and collection of the debt is reasonably assured. For unsecured non-reaffirmed debt in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy where the carrying value has been fully charged-off, payments are recorded as loan recoveries.
Within the C&I and CRE portfolios, the determination of a borrower’s ability to make the required principal and interest payments is based on an examination of the borrower’s current financial statements, industry, management capabilities, and other qualitative measures. For all classes within the consumer loan portfolio, the determination of a borrower’s ability to make the required principal and interest payments is based on multiple factors, including number of days past due and, in some instances, an evaluation of the borrower’s financial condition. When, in management’s judgment, the borrower’s ability to make required principal and interest payments resumes and collectability is no longer in doubt, supported by sustained repayment history, the loan is returned to accrual status. For loans that are returned to accrual status, cash receipts are applied according to the contractual terms of the loan.
Collateral-dependent Loans - Certain commercial and consumer loans for which repayment is expected to be provided substantially through the operation or sale of the loan collateral are considered to be collateral-dependent. Commercial collateral-dependent loans are generally secured by business assets and/or commercial real estate. Consumer collateral-dependent loans are primarily secured by residential real estate or automobiles.
Allowance for Credit Losses - Huntington maintains allowance for credit losses on its loan and lease portfolio, held-to-maturity securities as well as on available-for-sale securities. The allowance for credit losses on loan and lease portfolio and held-to-maturity securities are provided through an expected loss methodology referred to as current expected credit loss (“CECL”) methodology. The allowance for credit losses on AFS securities is provided when a credit loss is deemed to have occurred for securities which Huntington does not intend to sell or is not required to sell. The CECL methodology also applies to credit exposures on off-balance-sheet loan commitments, financial guarantees not accounted for as insurance, including standby letters of credit, and other similar instruments not recognized as derivative financial instruments.
Loans - The allowance for credit losses is deducted from the amortized cost basis of a financial asset or a group of financial assets so that the balance sheet reflects the net amount Huntington expects to collect. Amortized cost is the principal balance outstanding, net of purchase premiums and discounts, fair value hedge accounting adjustments, and deferred fees and costs. Subsequent changes (favorable and unfavorable) in expected credit losses are recognized immediately in net income as a credit loss expense or a reversal of credit loss expense. Management estimates the allowance by projecting probability-of-default, loss-given-default and exposure-at-default depending on loan risk characteristics and economic parameters for each month of the remaining contractual term. Commercial loan risk characteristics include but are not limited to risk ratings, industry type and maturity type. Consumer loan risk characteristics include but are not limited to FICO scores, LTV and loan vintages. The economic parameters are developed using available information relating to past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Huntington’s reasonable and supportable forecast period reverts to a historical norm based on inputs within approximately two to three years. The reversion period is dependent on the state of the economy at the beginning of the forecast. Historical credit experience provides the basis for the estimation of expected credit losses, with adjustments made for differences in current loan-specific risk
2020 Form 10-K 111
characteristics such as differences in underwriting standards, portfolio mix, delinquency levels and terms, as well as for changes in the micro- and macro-economic environments. The contractual terms of financial assets are adjusted for expected prepayments and any extensions outside of Huntington’s control.
The allowance for credit losses is measured on a collective basis when similar risk characteristics exist. Loans that are determined to have unique risk characteristics are evaluated on an individual basis by management. If a loan is determined to be collateral dependent, or meets the criteria to apply the collateral dependent practical expedient, expected credit losses are determined based on the fair value of the collateral at the reporting date, less costs to sell as appropriate. Loans with unique risk characteristics that are not subject to collateral dependent accounting, are assessed using a discounted cash flows methodology.
Management believes the products within each of the entity’s portfolio classes exhibit similar risk characteristics. Huntington has identified its portfolio classes as disclosed in Note 5 - “Loans and Leases”.
In addition to the transactional reserve described above, Huntington also maintains a general reserve that consists of various risk-profile reserve components. The risk-profile components consider items unique to Huntington’s structure, policies, processes and portfolio composition, as well as qualitative measurements and assessments of the loan portfolios including, but not limited to, economic uncertainty, concentrations, portfolio composition, industry comparisons and internal review functions.
Huntington has elected to exclude accrued interest receivable from the measurement of its ACL given the well-defined non-accrual policies in place for all loan portfolios which results in timely reversal of outstanding interest through interest income. For certain loans on active deferral related to COVID-19, the collection of interest may be delayed for an extended period of time. The accrued interest on these active deferral loans is contemplated in establishing the ACL.
The estimate for the off-balance sheet exposures, the AULC, is determined using the same procedures and methodologies as used for the loan and lease portfolio supplemented by the information related to future draws and related credit loss expectations. The AULC is recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Prior to the implementation of ASU 2016-13 (CECL) on January 1, 2020, the allowance for credit losses was subject to the guidance included in ASC 310 and ASC 450. Under the guidance, the bank was required to use an incurred loss methodology to estimate credit losses that were estimated to be incurred in the loan portfolio and that could ultimately materialize into confirmed losses in the form of charge-offs. The incurred loss methodology was a backward-looking approach to loss recognition and based on the concept of a triggering event having taken place, causing a loss to be inherent within the portfolio. This methodology under ASC 450 was predicated on a loss emergence period that was applied at a portfolio level. Loss emergence periods, PD’s and LGD’s were all based on historical loss experience within the loan portfolios. Consideration of forward looking macro-economic expectations was not permitted under this allowance methodology. Additionally, loans that were identified as impaired under the definition of ASC 310, were required to be assessed on an individual basis. The allowance for credit losses and resulting provision expense levels for comparative periods presented in this document were estimated in accordance with these requirements.
HTM Securities - The allowance for held-to-maturity debt securities is estimated using a CECL methodology. Any expected credit loss is provided through the allowance for credit loss on HTM securities and is deducted from the amortized cost basis of the security so that the balance sheet reflects the net amount Huntington expects to collect. Nearly all of Huntington’s HTM debt securities are issued by U.S. government entities and agencies. These securities are either explicitly or implicitly guaranteed by the U.S. government, are highly rated by major rating agencies, and have a long history of no credit losses. Accordingly, there is a zero credit loss expectation on these securities.
Prior to the implementation of ASU 2016-13 (CECL) on January 1, 2020, Huntington evaluated its HTM securities portfolio on a quarterly basis for indicators of OTTI. Huntington assessed whether OTTI had occurred when the fair value of a debt security was less than the amortized cost at the balance sheet date. If an OTTI was deemed to have occurred, the credit portion of the OTTI was recognized in noninterest income while the noncredit portion was recognized in OCI. In determining the credit portion, Huntington used a discounted cash flow analysis which included evaluating the timing and amount of the expected cash flows.
112 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
AFS Securities - Huntington evaluates its available-for-sale investment securities portfolio on a quarterly basis for indicators of impairment. Huntington assesses whether an impairment has occurred when the fair value of a debt security is less than the amortized cost at the balance sheet date. Management reviews the amount of unrealized loss, the credit rating history, market trends of similar security classes, time remaining to maturity, and the source of both interest and principal payments to identify securities which could potentially be impaired. For those debt securities that Huntington intends to sell or is more likely than not required to sell, before the recovery of their amortized cost basis, the difference between fair value and amortized cost is considered to be impaired and is recognized in noninterest income. For those debt securities that Huntington does not intend to sell or is not more likely than not required to sell, prior to expected recovery of amortized cost basis, the credit portion of the impairment is recognized through an allowance in noninterest income while the noncredit portion is recognized in OCI. In determining the credit portion, Huntington uses a discounted cash flow analysis, which includes evaluating the timing and amount of the expected cash flows. Non-credit-related impairment results from other factors, including increased liquidity spreads and higher interest rates.
Prior to the implementation of ASU 2016-13 (CECL) on January 1, 2020, Huntington evaluated its AFS securities portfolio in accordance with the methodology specified in the preceding paragraph except that the credit portion of the impairment would reduce the amortized cost basis of the security. Any subsequent increase in the expected cash flows would be recognized as an adjustment to interest income.
Charge-off of Uncollectible Loans - Any loan in any portfolio may be charged-off prior to the policies described below if a loss confirming event has occurred. Loss confirming events include, but are not limited to, bankruptcy (unsecured), continued delinquency, foreclosure, or receipt of an asset valuation indicating a collateral deficiency and that asset is the sole source of repayment. Additionally, discharged, collateral dependent non-reaffirmed debt in Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings will result in a charge-off to estimated collateral value, less anticipated selling costs, unless the repayment is likely to occur based on objective evidence.
C&I and CRE loans are generally either charged-off or written down to net realizable value at 90-days past due. Automobile, RV and marine and other consumer loans are generally charged-off at 120-days past due. First-lien and junior-lien home equity loans are charged-off to the estimated fair value of the collateral, less anticipated selling costs, at 150-days past due and 120-days past due, respectively. Residential mortgages are charged-off to the estimated fair value of the collateral at 150-days past due.
Collateral - Huntington pledges assets as collateral as required for various transactions including security repurchase agreements, public deposits, loan notes, derivative financial instruments, short-term borrowings and long-term borrowings. Assets that have been pledged as collateral, including those that can be sold or repledged by the secured party, continue to be reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Huntington also accepts collateral, primarily as part of various transactions including derivative instruments and security resale agreements. Collateral received is excluded from the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
The market value of collateral accepted or pledged is regularly monitored and additional collateral is obtained or provided as necessary to ensure appropriate collateral coverage in these transactions.
Premises and Equipment - Premises and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is computed principally by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Buildings and building improvements are depreciated over an average of 30 to 40 years and 10 to 30 years, respectively. Land improvements and furniture and fixtures are depreciated over an average of 5 to 20 years, while equipment is depreciated over a range of 3 to 10 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the asset’s useful life or the lease term, including any renewal periods for which renewal is reasonably assured. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while improvements that extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful life. Amounts in premises and equipment may include items classified as held-for-sale, which are carried at lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. Premises and equipment are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
Mortgage Servicing Rights - Huntington recognizes the rights to service mortgage loans as an asset when servicing is contractually separated from the underlying mortgage loans by sale or securitization of the loans with
2020 Form 10-K 113
servicing rights retained or when purchased. MSRs are included in servicing rights and other intangible assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. At the time of initial capitalization, MSRs may be grouped into servicing classes based on the availability of market inputs used in determining fair value and the method used for managing the risks of the servicing assets. All MSR assets are recorded using the fair value method. Any change in the fair value of MSRs during the period is recorded in mortgage banking income. Huntington economically hedges the value of certain MSRs using derivative instruments and trading securities. Changes in fair value of these derivatives and trading securities are reported as a component of mortgage banking income.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets - Under the acquisition method of accounting, the net assets of entities acquired by Huntington are recorded at their estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. The excess cost of consideration paid over the fair value of net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. Other intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized either on an accelerated or straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis at October 1st of each year or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Other intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable.
Operating Leases (Lessee) - Huntington has elected not to include non-lease components in the measurement of right-of-use assets, and as such allocates the costs attributable to such components, where those costs are not separately identifiable, via per-square-foot costing analysis developed by the entity for owned and leased spaces. Huntington uses a portfolio approach to develop discount rates as its lease portfolio is comprised of substantially all branch space and office space used in the entity’s operations. That rate, an input used in the measurement of the entity’s right-of-use assets, leverages an incremental borrowing rate of appropriate tenor and collateralization.
Derivative Financial Instruments - A variety of derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate swaps, caps, floors, and collars, are used in asset and liability management activities to protect against the risk of adverse price or interest rate movements. These instruments provide flexibility in adjusting Huntington’s sensitivity to changes in interest rates without exposure to loss of principal and higher funding requirements.
Huntington also uses derivatives, principally loan sale commitments, in hedging its mortgage loan interest rate lock commitments and its mortgage loans held for sale. Mortgage loan sale commitments and the related interest rate lock commitments are carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with changes in fair value reflected in mortgage banking income. Huntington also uses certain derivative financial instruments to offset changes in value of its MSRs. These derivatives consist primarily of forward interest rate agreements and forward mortgage contracts. The derivative instruments used are not designated as qualifying hedges. Accordingly, such derivatives are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in mortgage banking income.
Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a liability (in other assets and other liabilities, respectively) and measured at fair value. On the date a derivative contract is entered into, we designate it as either:
•a qualifying hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge);
•a qualifying hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset, liability or forecasted transaction (cash flow hedge); or
•a trading instrument or a non-qualifying (economic) hedge.
Changes in the fair value of a derivative that has been designated and qualifies as a fair value hedge, along with the changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in current period earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that has been designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge are recorded in other comprehensive income, net of income taxes, and reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedged item affects earnings. Changes in the fair value of derivatives held for trading purposes or which do not qualify for hedge accounting are reported in current period earnings.
For those derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied, Huntington formally documents the hedging relationship and the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge. This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged, and, unless
114 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
the hedge meets all of the criteria to assume there is no ineffectiveness, the method that will be used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging instrument. Except for specifically designated fair value hedges of certain fixed-rate debt for which Huntington utilizes the short-cut method when certain criteria are met, Huntington utilizes the regression method to evaluate hedge effectiveness on all its qualifying hedges on a quarterly basis.
Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when:
•the derivative is no longer effective or expected to be effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item (including firm commitments or forecasted transactions);
•the derivative expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised;
•the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring;
•the hedged firm commitment no longer meets the definition of a firm commitment; or
•the designation of the derivative as a hedging instrument is removed.
When hedge accounting is discontinued and the derivative no longer qualifies as an effective fair value or cash flow hedge, the derivative continues to be carried on the balance sheet at fair value.
In the case of a discontinued fair value hedge of a recognized asset or liability, as long as the hedged item continues to exist on the balance sheet, the hedged item will no longer be adjusted for changes in fair value. The basis adjustment that had previously been recorded to the hedged item during the period from the hedge designation date to the hedge discontinuation date is recognized as an adjustment to the yield of the hedged item over the remaining life of the hedged item.
In the case of a discontinued cash flow hedge of a recognized asset or liability, as long as the hedged item continues to exist on the balance sheet, the changes in fair value of the hedging derivative will no longer be recorded to other comprehensive income. The balance applicable to the discontinued hedging relationship will be recognized in earnings over the remaining life of the hedged item as an adjustment to yield. If the discontinued hedged item was a forecasted transaction that is not expected to occur, any amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income are immediately reclassified to current period earnings.
In the case of either a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge, if the previously hedged item is sold or extinguished, the basis adjustment to the underlying asset or liability or any remaining unamortized amount in accumulated other comprehensive income will be recognized in the current period earnings.
In all other situations in which hedge accounting is discontinued, the derivative will be carried at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets, with changes in its fair value recognized in current period earnings unless re-designated as a qualifying hedge.
Like other financial instruments, derivatives contain an element of credit risk, which is the possibility that Huntington will incur a loss because the counterparty fails to meet its contractual obligations. Notional values of interest rate swaps and other off-balance sheet financial instruments significantly exceed the credit risk associated with these instruments and represent contractual balances on which calculations of amounts to be exchanged are based. Credit exposure is limited to the sum of the aggregate fair value of positions that have become favorable to Huntington, including any accrued interest receivable due from counterparties. Potential credit losses are mitigated through trading derivatives through central clearing parties, careful evaluation of counterparty credit standing, selection of counterparties from a limited group of high quality institutions, collateral agreements, and other contract provisions. Huntington considers the value of collateral held and collateral provided in determining the net carrying value of derivatives.
Huntington offsets the fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments and the fair value for the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral arising from derivative instruments recognized at fair value executed with the same counterparty under a master netting arrangement.
Fair Value Measurements - The Company records or discloses certain of its assets and liabilities at fair value. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. Fair value measurements are classified within one of three levels in a valuation hierarchy based upon the observability of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three levels are defined as follows:
2020 Form 10-K 115
•Level 1 - inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.
•Level 2 - inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument.
•Level 3 - inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement.
A financial instrument’s categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Bank Owned Life Insurance - Huntington’s bank owned life insurance policies are recorded at their cash surrender value. Huntington recognizes tax-exempt income from the periodic increases in the cash surrender value of these policies and from death benefits. A portion of the cash surrender value is supported by holdings in separate accounts. Book value protection for the separate accounts is provided by the insurance carriers and a highly rated major bank.
Transfers of Financial Assets and Securitizations - Transfers of financial assets in which we have surrendered control over the transferred assets are accounted for as sales. In assessing whether control has been surrendered, Huntington considers whether the transferee would be a consolidated affiliate, the existence and extent of any continuing involvement in the transferred financial assets, and the impact of all arrangements or agreements made contemporaneously with, or in contemplation of, the transfer, even if they were not entered into at the time of transfer. Control is generally considered to have been surrendered when (i) the transferred assets have been legally isolated from Huntington or any of its consolidated affiliates, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, (ii) the transferee (or, if the transferee is an entity whose sole purpose is to engage in securitization or asset-backed financing that is constrained from pledging or exchanging the assets it receives, each third-party holder of its beneficial interests) has the right to pledge or exchange the assets (or beneficial interests) it received without any constraints that provide more than a trivial benefit to Huntington, and (iii) neither Huntington nor its consolidated affiliates and agents have (a) both the right and obligation under any agreement to repurchase or redeem the transferred assets before their maturity, (b) the unilateral ability to cause the holder to return specific financial assets that also provides Huntington with a more-than-trivial benefit (other than through a cleanup call) or (c) an agreement that permits the transferee to require Huntington to repurchase the transferred assets at a price so favorable that it is probable that it will require Huntington to repurchase them.
If the sale criteria are met, the transferred financial assets are removed from the balance sheet and a gain or loss on sale is recognized. If the sale criteria are not met, the transfer is recorded as a secured borrowing in which the assets remain on the balance sheet and the proceeds from the transaction are recognized as a liability. For the majority of financial asset transfers, it is clear whether or not Huntington has surrendered control. For other transfers, such as in the case of complex transactions or where Huntington have continuing involvement, we generally obtain a legal opinion as to whether the transfer results in a true sale by law.
Gains and losses on the loans and leases sold and servicing rights associated with loan and lease sales are determined when the related loans or leases are sold to either a securitization trust or third-party. For loan or lease sales with servicing retained, a servicing asset is recorded at fair value for the right to service the loans sold.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits - Huntington recognizes the funded status of the postretirement benefit plans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Net postretirement benefit cost charged to current earnings related to these plans is predominantly based on various actuarial assumptions regarding expected future experience.
Certain employees are participants in various defined contribution and other non-qualified supplemental retirement plans. Contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to current earnings.
In addition, Huntington maintains a 401(k) plan covering substantially all employees. Employer contributions to the plan are charged to current earnings.
116 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Noninterest Income - Huntington recognizes revenue when the performance obligations related to the transfer of goods or services under the terms of a contract are satisfied. Some obligations are satisfied at a point in time while others are satisfied over a period of time. Revenue is recognized as the amount of consideration to which Huntington expects to be entitled to in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. When consideration includes a variable component, the amount of consideration attributable to variability is included in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that significant revenue recognized will not be reversed when uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. Generally, the variability relating to the consideration is explicitly stated in the contracts, but may also arise from Huntington’s customer business practices, for example, waiving certain fees related to customer’s deposit accounts such as NSF fees. Huntington’s contracts generally do not contain terms that require significant judgement to determine the variability impacting the transaction price.
Revenue is segregated based on the nature of product and services offered as part of contractual arrangements. Revenue from contracts with customers is broadly segregated as follows:
•Service charges on deposit accounts include fees and other charges Huntington receives to provide various services, including but not limited to, maintaining an account with a customer, providing overdraft services, wire transfer, transferring funds, and accepting and executing stop-payment orders. The consideration includes both fixed (e.g., account maintenance fee) and transaction fees (e.g., wire-transfer fee). The fixed fee is recognized over a period of time while the transaction fee is recognized when a specific service (e.g., execution of wire-transfer) is rendered to the customer. Huntington may, from time to time, waive certain fees (e.g., NSF fee) for customers but generally does not reduce the transaction price to reflect variability for future reversals due to the insignificance of the amounts. Waiver of fees reduces the revenue in the period the waiver is granted to the customer.
•Card and payment processing income includes interchange fees earned on debit cards and credit cards. All other fees (e.g., annual fees), and interest income are recognized in accordance with ASC 310. Huntington recognizes interchange fees for services performed related to authorization and settlement of a cardholder’s transaction with a merchant. Revenue is recognized when a cardholder’s transaction is approved and settled.
Certain volume or transaction based interchange expenses (net of rebates) paid to the payment network reduce the interchange revenue and are presented net on the income statement. Similarly, rewards payable under a reward program to cardholders are recognized as a reduction of the transaction price and are presented net against the interchange revenue.
•Trust and investment management services includes fee income generated from personal, corporate and institutional customers. Huntington also provides investment management services, cash management services and tax reporting to customers. Services are rendered over a period of time, over which revenue is recognized. Huntington may also recognize revenue from referring a customer to outside third-parties including mutual fund companies that pay distribution (12b-1) fees and other expenses. 12b-1 fees are received upon initially placing an account holder’s funds with a mutual fund company as well as in the future periods as long as the account holder (i.e., the fund investor), remains invested in the fund. The transaction price includes a variable consideration which is considered constrained as it is not probable that a significant revenue reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. Accordingly, those fees are recognized as revenue when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved, that is, initial fees are recognized in the initial period while the future fees are recognized in future periods.
•Insurance income includes agency commissions that are recognized when Huntington sells insurance policies to customers. Huntington is also entitled to renewal commissions and, in some cases, profit sharing which are recognized in subsequent periods. The initial commission is recognized when the insurance policy is sold to a customer. Renewal commission is variable consideration and is recognized in subsequent periods when the uncertainty around variable consideration is subsequently resolved (i.e., when customer renews the policy). Profit sharing is also variable consideration that is not recognized until the variability surrounding realization of revenue is resolved (i.e., Huntington has reached a minimum volume of sales). Another source of variability is the ability of the policy holder to cancel the policy anytime. In such cases, Huntington may be
2020 Form 10-K 117
required, under the terms of the contract, to return part of the commission received. A policy cancellation reserve is established for such expected cancellations.
•Other noninterest income includes a variety of other revenue streams including capital markets revenue, miscellaneous consumer fees and marketing allowance revenue. Revenue is recognized when, or as, the performance obligation is satisfied. Inherent variability in the transaction price is not recognized until the uncertainty affecting the variability is resolved.
Control is transferred to a customer either at a point in time or over time. A performance obligation is deemed satisfied when the control over goods or services is transferred to the customer. To determine when control is transferred at a point in time, Huntington considers indicators, including but not limited to the right to payment for the asset, transfer of significant risk and rewards of ownership of the asset and acceptance of the asset by the customer.
Revenue is recorded in the business segment responsible for the related product or service. Fee sharing arrangements exist to allocate portions of such revenue to other business segments involved in selling to, or providing service to, customers. Business segment results are determined based upon management’s reporting system, which assigns balance sheet and income statement items to each of the business segments. The process is designed around Huntington’s organizational and management structure and, accordingly, the results derived are not necessarily comparable with similar information published by other financial institutions.
Income Taxes - Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Accordingly, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future book and tax consequences attributable to temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined using enacted tax rates expected to apply in the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income at the time of enactment of such change in tax rates.
Any interest or penalties due for payment of income taxes are included in the provision for income taxes. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is recorded. All positive and negative evidence is reviewed when determining how much of a valuation allowance is recognized on a quarterly basis. In determining the requirements for a valuation allowance, sources of possible taxable income are evaluated including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, taxable income in appropriate carryback years, and tax-planning strategies. Huntington applies a more likely than not recognition threshold for all tax uncertainties.
Share-Based Compensation - Huntington uses the fair value based method of accounting for awards of HBAN stock granted to employees under various share-based compensation plans. Share-based compensation costs are recognized prospectively for all new awards granted under these plans. Compensation expense relating to stock options is calculated using a methodology that is based on the underlying assumptions of the Black-Scholes option pricing model and is charged to expense over the requisite service period (e.g., vesting period). Compensation expense relating to restricted stock awards is based upon the fair value of the awards on the date of grant and is charged to earnings over the requisite service period (e.g., vesting period) of the award.
Stock Repurchases - Acquisitions of Huntington stock are recorded at cost.
Segment Results - Accounting policies for the business segments are the same as those used in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements with respect to activities specifically attributable to each business segment. However, the preparation of business segment results requires management to establish methodologies to allocate funding costs and benefits, expenses, and other financial elements to each business segment, which are described in Note 26 - “Segment Reporting”.
118 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
2. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS UPDATE
Accounting standards adopted in current period
StandardSummary of guidanceEffects on financial statements
ASU 2016-13 - Financial Instruments - Credit Losses.
Issued June 2016
•Eliminates the probable recognition threshold for credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost, replacing the current incurred loss framework with an expected credit loss model.
•Requires those financial assets subject to the new guidance to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected (i.e., net of expected credit losses).
•Measurement of expected credit losses should be based on relevant information including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount.
•The guidance will require additional quantitative and qualitative disclosures related to the credit risk inherent in Huntington’s portfolio and how management monitors the portfolio’s credit quality.
•Management adopted the guidance on January 1, 2020 through a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings and implemented changes to relevant systems, processes, and controls where necessary.
•The adoption of ASU 2016-13 on January 1, 2020 resulted in an increase to our total ACL of $393 million. This represented an increase of 44% from the 2019 year end ACL level of $887 million. For more detail on the day 1 adoption impacts, please refer to Note 6 - Allowance for Credit Losses.
•The ASU eliminated the current accounting model for purchased-credit-impaired loans, but requires an allowance to be recognized for purchased-credit-deteriorated (PCD) assets (those that have experienced more-than-insignificant deterioration in credit quality since origination). Huntington did not have any loans accounted for as PCD upon adoption.
•At adoption, Huntington did not record an allowance with respect to HTM securities as the portfolio consists almost entirely of agency-backed securities that inherently have minimal nonpayment risk.
ASU 2019-12 - Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes
Issued: December 2019
•The ASU simplifies the accounting for income taxes by removing exceptions to the:
◦Incremental approach for intra-period tax allocation when there is a loss from continuing operations and income or a gain from other items;
◦Requirement to recognize a deferred tax liability for equity method investments when a foreign subsidiary becomes an equity method investment;
◦Ability not to recognize a deferred tax liability for a foreign subsidiary when a foreign equity method investment becomes a subsidiary; and,
◦General methodology for calculating income taxes in an interim period when a year-to-date loss exceeds the anticipated loss for the year.
•The ASU also simplifies various other aspects of the accounting for income taxes.
•Management early adopted the guidance on October 1, 2020.
•The ASU did not have a material impact on Huntington’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
2020 Form 10-K 119
StandardSummary of guidanceEffects on financial statements
ASU 2020-04 - Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting
Issued: March 2020; Amended: January 2021
•The ASU provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying U.S. GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships, and other transactions affected by reference rate reform if certain criteria are met, including the following:
◦Modifications of contracts within the scope of Topics 310, Receivables, and 470, Debt, should be accounted for by prospectively adjusting the effective interest rate;
◦Modifications of contracts within the scope of Topic 842, Leases, should be accounted for as a continuation of the existing contracts with no reassessments of the lease classification or discount rate;
◦The ASU also provides optional expedients for various hedging relationships, allowing hedge accounting to continue uninterrupted, provided certain criteria are met; and,
◦An entity may make a one time election to sell, transfer, or both sell and transfer debt securities classified as held to maturity if certain criteria are met.
•Topic 848 was subsequently amended in January 2021, allowing entities to elect certain optional expedients and exceptions in Topic 848 relating to derivative contracts and hedge accounting affected by the discounting transition initiated by certain central clearing parties.
•Management early adopted the guidance on October 1, 2020.
•While neither the ASU or the amendment had a material impact on Huntington’s Consolidated Financial Statements, they do ease the administrative burden of accounting for contracts impacted by reference rate reform.
3. PENDING ACQUISITION OF TCF FINANCIAL CORPORATION
On December 13, 2020, Huntington announced the signing of a definitive merger agreement (the “TCF/Huntington Merger Agreement”). Under the terms of the agreement, which was unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies, TCF Financial Corporation, the parent company of TCF National Bank will merge into Huntington in an all-stock transaction valued at approximately $6.0 billion based on the closing stock price on the day preceding the announcement. TCF is a financial holding company headquartered in Detroit, Michigan with reported total assets of $47.8 billion based on their balance sheet at December 31, 2020. Following the merger, Huntington will operate with dual headquarters for banking operations in Detroit, Michigan and Columbus, Ohio.
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, TCF shareholders will receive 3.0028 shares of Huntington common stock for each share of TCF common stock. Holders of TCF common stock will receive cash in lieu of fractional shares. Each outstanding share of 5.70% Series C Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of TCF will be converted into the right to receive one share of a newly created series of preferred stock of Huntington. Subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions, including approval of both TCF and Huntington shareholders, the transaction is anticipated to close in the second quarter of 2021.
120 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
4. INVESTMENT SECURITIES AND OTHER SECURITIES
Debt securities purchased in which Huntington has the intent and ability to hold to their maturity are classified as held-to-maturity securities. All other debt and equity securities are classified as either available-for-sale or other securities.
The following tables provide amortized cost, fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses by investment category at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(1)Amortized cost amounts excludes accrued interest receivable, which is recorded within other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2020, accrued interest receivable on available-for-sale securities and held-to-maturity securities totaled $32 million and $20 million, respectively.
2020 Form 10-K 121
122 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
The following table provides the amortized cost and fair value of securities by contractual maturity at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without incurring penalties.
The following tables provide detail on investment securities with unrealized losses aggregated by investment category and the length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous loss position at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
2020 Form 10-K 123
During 2020, Huntington transferred a total of $2.8 billion of securities from the AFS portfolio to the HTM portfolio. At the time of the transfers, AOCI included a combined total of $21 million of unrealized gains attributed to these securities. This gain will be amortized into interest income over the remaining life of the securities.
At December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, the carrying value of investment securities pledged to secure public and trust deposits, trading account liabilities, U.S. Treasury demand notes, security repurchase agreements and to support borrowing capacity totaled $14.4 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. There were no securities of a single issuer, which were not governmental or government-sponsored, that exceeded 10% of shareholders’ equity at either December 31, 2020 or December 31, 2019. At December 31, 2020, all HTM debt securities are considered AAA rated. In addition, there were no HTM debt securities considered past due at December 31, 2020.
AFS Securities Impairment/HTM Securities Allowance for Credit Losses
Based on an evaluation of available information including security type, counterparty credit quality, past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that are relevant to collectability, Huntington has concluded that it expects to receive all contractual cash flows from each security held in its AFS and HTM debt securities portfolio. As such, no allowance or impairment is recorded with respect to securities as of December 31, 2020.
124 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
5. LOANS / LEASES
Loans and leases which Huntington has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future, or until maturity or payoff, are classified in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as loans and leases. The total balance of unamortized premiums, discounts, fees, and costs, recognized as part of loans and leases, was a net premium of $491 million and $525 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Loan and Lease Portfolio Composition
The following table provides a detailed listing of Huntington’s loan and lease portfolio at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019.
Equipment Leases
Huntington leases equipment to customers, and substantially all such arrangements are classified as either sales-type or direct financing leases, which are included in C&I loans. These leases are reported at the aggregate of lease payments receivable and estimated residual values, net of unearned and deferred income, and any initial direct costs incurred to originate these leases. Renewal options for leases are at the option of the lessee, and are not included in the measurement of lease receivables as they are not considered reasonably certain of exercise. Purchase options are typically at fair value, and as such those options are not considered in the measurement of lease receivables or in lease classification.
For leased equipment, the residual component of a direct financing lease represents the estimated fair value of the leased equipment at the end of the lease term. Huntington uses industry data, historical experience, and independent appraisals to establish these residual value estimates. Additional information regarding product life cycle, product upgrades, as well as insight into competing products are obtained through relationships with industry contacts and are factored into residual value estimates where applicable. Upon expiration of a lease, residual assets are remarketed, resulting in an extension of the lease by the lessee, a lease to a new customer, or purchase of the residual asset by the lessee or another party. Huntington also purchases insurance guaranteeing the value of certain residual assets.
Huntington assesses net investments in leases (including residual values) for impairment and recognizes any impairment losses in accordance with the impairment guidance for financial instruments. As such, net investments in leases may be reduced by an allowance for credit losses, with changes recognized as provision expense.
2020 Form 10-K 125
The following table presents net investments in lease financing receivables by category at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The carrying value of residual values guaranteed was $93 million as of December 31, 2020. The future lease rental payments due from customers on sales-type and direct financing leases at December 31, 2020, totaled $1.7 billion and were due as follows: $0.6 billion in 2021, $0.4 billion in 2022, $0.3 billion in 2023, $0.2 billion in 2024, $0.1 billion in 2025, and $0.1 billion thereafter. Interest income recognized for these types of leases was $106 million, $108 million, and $100 million for the years 2020, 2019, and 2018 respectively.
Nonaccrual and Past Due Loans
The following table presents NALs by loan class at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The amount of interest that would have been recorded under the original terms for total NAL loans was $33 million, $26 million, and $22 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The total amount of interest recorded to interest income for NAL loans was $6 million, $9 million, and $12 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
The following table presents an aging analysis of loans and leases, including past due loans and leases, by loan class at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
126 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
(1)NALs are included in this aging analysis based on the loan’s past due status.
(2)At December 31, 2020, the principal balance of loans in payment deferral programs offered in response to the COVID-19 pandemic which are performing according to their modified terms are generally not considered delinquent.
(3)Amounts include Huntington Technology Finance administrative lease delinquencies.
(4)Amounts include mortgage loans insured by U.S. government agencies.
Credit Quality Indicators
To facilitate the monitoring of credit quality for commercial loans, and for the purposes of determining an appropriate ACL level for these loans, Huntington utilizes the following internally defined categories of credit grades:
•Pass - Higher quality loans that do not fit any of the other categories described below.
•OLEM - The credit risk may be relatively minor yet represents a risk given certain specific circumstances. If the potential weaknesses are not monitored or mitigated, the loan may weaken or the collateral may be inadequate to protect Huntington’s position in the future. For these reasons, Huntington considers the loans to be potential problem loans.
•Substandard - Inadequately protected loans resulting from the borrower’s ability to repay, equity, and/or the collateral pledged to secure the loan. These loans have identified weaknesses that could hinder normal repayment or collection of the debt. It is likely Huntington will sustain some loss if any identified weaknesses are not mitigated.
•Doubtful - Loans that have all of the weaknesses inherent in those loans classified as Substandard, with the added elements of the full collection of the loan is improbable and that the possibility of loss is high.
Loans are generally assigned a category of “Pass” rating upon initial approval and subsequently updated as appropriate based on the borrower’s financial performance.
Commercial loans categorized as OLEM, Substandard, or Doubtful are considered Criticized loans. Commercial loans categorized as Substandard or Doubtful are both considered Classified loans.
For all classes within the consumer loan portfolios, loans are assigned pool level PD factors based on the FICO range within which the borrower’s credit bureau score falls. A credit bureau score is a credit score developed by FICO based on data provided by the credit bureaus. The credit bureau score is widely accepted as the standard measure of consumer credit risk used by lenders, regulators, rating agencies, and consumers. The higher the credit bureau score, the higher likelihood of repayment and therefore, an indicator of higher credit quality.
Huntington assesses the risk in the loan portfolio by utilizing numerous risk characteristics. The classifications described above, and also presented in the table below, represent one of those characteristics that are closely monitored in the overall credit risk management processes.
2020 Form 10-K 127
The following table presents each loan and lease class by vintage and credit quality indicator at December 31, 2020:
(1)Consistent with the credit quality disclosures, indicators for the Commercial portfolio are based on internally defined categories of credit grades which are generally refreshed at least semi-annually.
(2)Consistent with the credit quality disclosures, indicators for the Consumer portfolio are based on updated customer credit scores refreshed at least quarterly.
(3)The total amount of accrued interest recorded for these loans at December 31, 2020, presented in other assets within the Consolidated Balance Sheets, was $146 million and $123 million for commercial and consumer, respectively.
128 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
The following tables present each loan and lease class by credit quality indicator at December 31, 2019:
(1)Excludes loans accounted for under the fair value option.
(2)Reflects updated customer credit scores.
TDR Loans
On March 22, 2020 and April 7, 2020, the federal bank regulatory agencies including the FRB and OCC released statements encouraging financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers that may be unable to meet their contractual obligations because of the effects of COVID-19. The statements go on to explain that, in consultation with the FASB staff, the federal bank regulatory agencies concluded that short-term modifications (e.g. six months) made on a good faith basis to borrowers who were current as of the implementation date of a relief program are not TDRs. Section 4013 of the CARES Act, as amended by Section 541 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021, (“CARES Act”) further addresses COVID-19 related modifications occurring between March 1, 2020 through January 1, 2022 and specifies that such COVID-19 related modifications on loans that were current as of December 31, 2019 are not TDRs.
For COVID-19 related loan modifications occurring during 2020, which met the loan modification criteria under the CARES Act, Huntington elected to suspend TDR accounting. For loan modifications not eligible for the CARES Act, Huntington applied the interagency regulatory guidance that was clarified on April 7, 2020. Accordingly, insignificant concessions (related to the current COVID-19 crisis) granted through payment deferrals, fee waivers, or other short-term modifications (generally 6 months or less) and provided to borrowers less than 30 days past due at March 17, 2020 were not deemed to be TDRs. Therefore, modified loans that met the required guidelines for relief are excluded from the TDR disclosures below.
The amount of interest that would have been recorded under the original terms for total accruing TDR loans was $46 million, $52 million, and $51 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The total amount of actual interest recorded to interest income for these loans was $43 million, $49 million, and $48 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
TDR Concession Types
The Company’s standards relating to loan modifications consider, among other factors, minimum verified income requirements, cash flow analyses, and collateral valuations. Each potential loan modification is reviewed individually and the terms of the loan are modified to meet a borrower’s specific circumstances at a point in time. All commercial TDRs are reviewed and approved by our FRG.
Following is a description of TDRs by the different loan types:
Commercial loan TDRs - Our strategy involving commercial TDR borrowers includes working with these borrowers to allow them to refinance elsewhere, as well as allow them time to improve their financial position and remain a Huntington customer through refinancing their notes according to market terms and conditions in the future. A subsequent refinancing or modification of a loan may occur when either the loan matures according to the terms of the TDR-modified agreement or the borrower requests a change to the loan agreements. At that time, the loan is evaluated to determine if the borrower is creditworthy. It is subjected to the normal underwriting standards and processes for other similar credit extensions, both new and existing. The refinanced note is evaluated to determine if it is considered a new loan or a continuation of the prior loan.
2020 Form 10-K 129
Consumer loan TDRs - Residential mortgage TDRs represent loan modifications associated with traditional first-lien mortgage loans in which a concession has been provided to the borrower. The primary concessions given to residential mortgage borrowers are amortization or maturity date changes and interest rate reductions. Residential mortgages identified as TDRs involve borrowers unable to refinance their mortgages through the Company’s normal mortgage origination channels or through other independent sources. Some, but not all, of the loans may be delinquent. The Company may make similar interest rate, term, and principal concessions for Automobile, Home Equity, RV and Marine and Other Consumer loan TDRs.
TDR Impact on Credit Quality
Huntington’s ALLL is largely determined by risk ratings assigned to commercial loans, updated borrower credit scores on consumer loans, and borrower delinquency history in both the commercial and consumer portfolios. These risk ratings and credit scores consider the default history of the borrower, including payment redefaults. As such, the provision for credit losses is impacted primarily by changes in borrower payment performance rather than the TDR classification. TDRs can be classified as either accrual or nonaccrual loans. Nonaccrual TDRs are included in NALs whereas accruing TDRs are excluded from NALs as it is probable that all contractual principal and interest due under the restructured terms will be collected.
The Company’s TDRs may include multiple concessions and the disclosure classifications are presented based on the primary concession provided to the borrower. The majority of the concessions for the C&I and CRE portfolios are the extension of the maturity date, but could also include an interest rate concession. In these instances, the primary concession is the maturity date extension.
The following table presents, by class and modification type, the number of contracts, post-modification outstanding balance, and the financial effects of the modification for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
(1)TDRs may include multiple concessions. The disclosure classification is based on the primary concession provided to the borrower.
(2)Post-modification balances approximate pre-modification balances. The aggregate amount of charge-offs as a result of a restructuring are not significant.
130 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
The financial effects of modification represent the impact on the provision (recovery) for loan and lease losses. Amounts for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 were $6 million and $(2) million, respectively.
Pledged Loans
The Bank has access to the Federal Reserve’s discount window and advances from the FHLB. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, these borrowings and advances are secured by $43.0 billion and $39.6 billion, respectively, of loans.
6. ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
On January 1, 2020, Huntington adopted ASU 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (ASC Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which replaced the incurred loss methodology with an expected loss methodology that is referred to as the current expected credit loss (“CECL”) methodology. The measurement of expected credit losses under CECL is applicable to financial assets measured at amortized cost, including loan receivables and held-to-maturity debt securities. It also applies to off-balance sheet exposures not accounted for as insurance and net investments in leases accounted for under ASC Topic 842. Additionally, ASC Topic 326 made changes to the accounting for AFS debt securities, including a requirement to present credit losses as an allowance rather than as a write-down on AFS debt securities that management does not intend to sell, or believes will not be required to sell.
Huntington adopted ASC Topic 326 using the modified retrospective method for all financial assets in scope of the standard. Results for reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2020 are presented under ASC Topic 326, while prior period amounts continue to be reported in accordance with previously applicable GAAP. Upon adoption, Huntington recorded an increase to the ACL of $393 million and a corresponding decrease to retained earnings of approximately $306 million, net of tax of $87 million. The overall increase to the ACL at adoption is comprised of a $180 million increase in the commercial ALLL, a $211 million increase in the consumer ALLL, and a $2 million increase to the AULC.
2020 Form 10-K 131
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses and Allowance for Credit Losses - Roll-forward
The following table presents ALLL and AULC activity by portfolio segment for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
(1)Relates to day one impact of the CECL adjustment as a result of the implementation of ASU 2016-13.
At December 31, 2020, the ACL was $1.9 billion, an increase of $979 million from the December 31, 2019 balance of $887 million. Of the increase, $586 million relates primarily to the deterioration in the macroeconomic outlook resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic as evidenced in part by the changes in assumed unemployment rate levels during 2020. When estimating the January 1, 2020 CECL implementation adjustment, the assumed unemployment rate for fourth quarter 2020 in the base case scenario was 3.75%. When estimating the December 31, 2020 ACL, the assumed unemployment rate for fourth quarter 2020 in the base case scenario was 7.20%. The remaining increase of $393 million was related to the transition to the CECL lifetime loss methodology. The majority of the increase in the ACL from 2019 year-end levels related to the commercial portfolio.
132 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
The suite of CECL models are generally dependent on the rate of change in unemployment rather than the absolute unemployment levels. Additionally, the economic scenarios used in the December 31, 2020 ACL determination contained significant judgmental assumptions around the ultimate number of COVID-19 cases and the level and timing of government stimulus. Given the impact of the unemployment variable utilized within the models and the uncertainty associated with key economic scenario assumptions, the December 31, 2020 ACL included a material general reserve component to capture this economic uncertainty risk not addressed within the quantitative transaction reserve.
NCOs increased $184 million, or 69%, in 2020. The increase was driven by commercial NCOs, which were centered in our oil and gas portfolio, partially offset by a decline in other consumer.
7. MORTGAGE LOAN SALES AND SERVICING RIGHTS
Residential Mortgage Portfolio
The following table summarizes activity relating to residential mortgage loans sold with servicing retained for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
(1)Recorded in mortgage banking income.
The following table summarizes the changes in MSRs recorded using the fair value method for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (1):
(1)Prior to January 1, 2020, substantially all of Huntington’s MSR assets were recorded at amortized cost.
(2)Represents decrease in value due to passage of time, including the impact from both regularly scheduled principal payments and partial loan paydowns.
(3)Represents decrease in value associated with loans that paid off during the period.
(4)Represents change in value resulting primarily from market-driven changes in interest
MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with readily observable prices. Therefore, the fair value of MSRs is estimated using a discounted future cash flow model. Changes in the assumptions used may have a significant impact on the valuation of MSRs. MSR values are highly sensitive to movement in interest rates as expected future net servicing income depends on the projected outstanding principal balances of the underlying loans, which can be greatly impacted by the level of prepayments.
2020 Form 10-K 133
For MSRs under the fair value method, a summary of key assumptions and the sensitivity of the MSR value to changes in these assumptions at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019 follows:
(1)Prior to January 1, 2020, substantially all of Huntington’s MSR assets were recorded at amortized cost.
Total servicing, late and other ancillary fees included in mortgage banking income was $64 million, $63 million, and $60 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. The unpaid principal balance of residential mortgage loans serviced for third parties was $23.5 billion, $22.4 billion, and $21.0 billion at December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
8. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Business segments are based on segment leadership structure, which reflects how segment performance is monitored and assessed. We have four major business segments: Consumer and Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Vehicle Finance, and Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group (RBHPCG). The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense.
A rollforward of goodwill by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, is presented in the table below:
Goodwill is not amortized but is evaluated for impairment on an annual basis at October 1 of each year or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. No impairment was recorded in 2020 or 2019.
The emergence of COVID-19 as a global pandemic early in 2020 led to significant deterioration in the economic environment which has impacted expected earnings. Following qualitative assessments of the goodwill balance in each of the first 3 quarters of 2020, management conducted its annual goodwill impairment test effective October 1, 2020. Impairment was not identified in any of the Bank’s reporting units during the annual test and further deterioration in the economic environment was not identified leading up to year end. Goodwill assessments are highly sensitive to economic projections and the related assumptions and estimates used by management.
134 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, Huntington’s other intangible assets consisted of the following:
The estimated amortization expense of other intangible assets for the next five years is as follows:
9. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
Premises and equipment were comprised of the following at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Depreciation and amortization charged to expense and rental income credited to net occupancy expense for the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were:
10. OPERATING LEASES
At December 31, 2020, Huntington was obligated under non-cancelable leases for branch and office space. These leases are all classified as operating due to the amount of time such spaces are occupied relative to the underlying assets useful lives. Many of these leases contain renewal options, most of which are not included in measurement of the right-of-use asset as they are not considered reasonably certain of exercise (i.e., Huntington does not currently have a significant economic incentive to exercise these options). Some leases contain escalation clauses calling for rentals to be adjusted for increased real estate taxes and other operating expenses or proportionately adjusted for increases in the consumer or other price indices. Occasionally, Huntington will sublease the land and buildings for which it has obtained the right to use; substantially all of those sublease arrangements are classified as operating, with sublease income recognized on a straight-line basis over the contractual term of the arrangement.
2020 Form 10-K 135
Net lease assets and liabilities at December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:
Net lease cost for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:
Maturity of lease liabilities at December 31, 2020 are as follows:
Additional supplemental information related to the Company’s operating leases as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:
11. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS
Borrowings with original maturities of one year or less are classified as short-term and were comprised of the following at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
136 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
12. LONG-TERM DEBT
Huntington’s long-term debt consisted of the following:
(1)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR +0.70%
(2)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR +0.625%
(3)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR +1.40%
(4)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR +1.33%
(5)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2019, based on three-month LIBOR +0.51%
(6)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based onthree-month LIBOR +0.55%
(7)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR +1.88%
(8)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR +2.00%
2020 Form 10-K 137
Amounts above are net of unamortized discounts and adjustments related to hedging with derivative financial instruments. We use interest rate swaps to hedge interest rate risk of certain fixed-rate debt by converting the debt to a variable rate. See Note 21 - “Derivative Financial Instruments“ for more information regarding such financial instruments.
The following table presents senior notes issued during 2020:
During 2020, Huntington retired $500 million of senior notes, which resulted in net pre-tax loss of $7 million These transactions have been recorded as loss on early extinguishment of debt, and reflected in other noninterest expense, in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Long-term debt maturities for the next five years and thereafter are as follows:
These maturities are based upon the par values of the long-term debt.
The terms of certain long-term debt obligations contain various restrictive covenants including limitations on the acquisition of additional debt, dividend payments, and the disposition of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2020, Huntington was in compliance with all such covenants.
13. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The components of Huntington’s OCI for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, were as follows:
138 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Activity in accumulated OCI for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:
(1)AOCI amounts at December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 include $69 million, $121 million, and $137 million, respectively, net of unrealized losses on securities transferred from the available-for-sale securities portfolio to the held-to-maturity securities portfolio. The net unrealized losses will be recognized in earnings over the remaining life of the security using the effective interest method.
14. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
The following is a summary of Huntington’s non-cumulative, non-voting, perpetual preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2020.
Series B, D, and C of preferred stock has a liquidation value and redemption price per share of $1,000, plus any declared and unpaid dividends. Series E preferred stock has a liquidation value and redemption price per share of $100,000, plus any declared and unpaid dividends. All preferred stock has no stated maturity and redemption is solely at the option of the Company. Under current rules, any redemption of the preferred stock is subject to prior approval of the FRB.
Preferred F Stock issued and outstanding
During the 2020 second quarter, Huntington issued $500 million of preferred stock. Huntington issued 500,000 depositary shares, each depositary shares representing a 1/100th ownership interest in a share of 5.625% Series F Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (Series F Preferred Stock), par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (equivalent to $1,000 per depositary share). Each holder of a depositary share will be entitled to all proportional rights and preferences of the Series F Preferred Stock (including dividend, voting,
2020 Form 10-K 139
redemption, and liquidation rights). Costs of $6 million related to the issuance of the Series F Preferred Stock are reported as a direct deduction from the face amount of the stock.
Dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock will be non-cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears, when, as and if authorized by the Company's board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board and declared by the Company, at an annual rate of 5.625% per year on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, equivalent to $1,000 per depositary share. The dividend payment dates will be the fifteenth day of each January, April, July and October, which commenced on October 15, 2020.
The Series F Preferred Stock is perpetual and has no maturity date. Huntington may redeem the Series F Preferred Stock at its option, (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after July 15, 2030 or (ii) in whole but not in part, within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event, in each case, at a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share (equivalent to $1,000 per depositary share), plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without regard to any undeclared dividends, on the Series F Preferred Stock prior to the date fixed for redemption. If Huntington redeems the Series F Preferred Stock, the depositary will redeem a proportional number of depositary shares. Neither the holders of Series Preferred F Stock nor holders of depositary shares will have the right to require the redemption or repurchase of the Series F Preferred Stock or the depositary shares.
Preferred G Stock issued and outstanding
During the 2020 third quarter, Huntington issued $500 million of preferred stock. Huntington issued 500,000 depositary shares, each depositary shares representing a 1/100th ownership interest in a share of 4.450% Series G Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (Series G Preferred Stock), par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per share (equivalent to $1,000 per depositary share). Each holder of a depositary share will be entitled to all proportional rights and preferences of the Series G Preferred Stock (including dividend, voting, redemption, and liquidation rights). Costs of $6 million related to the issuance of the Series G Preferred Stock are reported as a direct deduction from the face amount of the stock.
Dividends on the Series G Preferred Stock will be non-cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears, when, as and if authorized by the Company's board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board and declared by the Company, at an annual rate of 4.450% per year on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, equivalent to $1,000 per depositary share. The dividend payment dates will be the fifteenth day of each January, April, July and October, commencing on January 15, 2021.
The Series G Preferred Stock is perpetual and has no maturity date. Huntington may redeem the Series G Preferred Stock at its option, (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after October 15, 2027 or (ii) in whole but not in part, within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event, in each case, at a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share (equivalent to $1,000 per depositary share), plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without regard to any undeclared dividends, on the Series G Preferred Stock prior to the date fixed for redemption. If Huntington redeems the Series G Preferred Stock, the depositary will redeem a proportional number of depositary shares. Neither the holders of Series Preferred G Stock nor holders of depositary shares will have the right to require the redemption or repurchase of the Series G Preferred Stock or the depositary shares.
Preferred H Stock issued and outstanding
On February 2, 2021, Huntington issued $500 million of preferred stock. Huntington issued 20,000,000 depositary shares, each representing a 1/40th ownership interest in a share of 4.50% Series H Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (Preferred H Stock), par value $0.01 per share, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per depositary share). Each holder of a depositary share, will be entitled to all proportional rights and preferences of the Preferred H Stock (including dividend, voting, redemption, and liquidation rights). Costs of $16 million related to the issuance of the Preferred H Stock are reported as a direct deduction from the face amount of the stock.
Dividends on the Preferred H Stock will be non-cumulative and payable quarterly in arrears, when, as and if authorized by the Company's board of directors or a duly authorized committee of the board and declared by the Company, at an annual rate of 4.50% per year on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, equivalent to $25
140 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
per depositary share. The dividend payment dates will be the fifteenth day of each January, April, July and October, commencing on July 15, 2021, or the next business day if any such day is not a business day.
The Preferred H Stock is perpetual and has no maturity date. Huntington may redeem the Preferred H Stock at its option, (i) in whole or in part, from time to time, on any dividend payment date on or after April 15, 2026 or (ii) in whole but not in part, within 90 days following a regulatory capital treatment event, in each case, at a redemption price equal to $1,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per depositary share), plus any declared and unpaid dividends and, in the case of a redemption following a regulatory capital treatment event, the pro-rated portion of dividends, whether or not declared, for the dividend period in which such redemption occurs. If Huntington redeems the Preferred H Stock, the depositary will redeem a proportional number of depositary shares. Neither the holders of Preferred H Stock nor holders of depositary shares will have the right to require the redemption or repurchase of the Preferred H Stock or the depositary shares. Any redemption of the Preferred H Stock is subject to Huntington's receipt of any required prior approval by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
The following table presents the dividends declared for each series of Preferred shares for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
15. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic earnings per share is the amount of earnings (adjusted for dividends declared on preferred stock) available to each share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share is the amount of earnings available to each share of common stock outstanding during the reporting period adjusted to include the effect of potentially dilutive common shares. Potentially dilutive common shares include incremental shares issued for stock options, restricted stock units and awards, and distributions from deferred compensation plans. Potentially dilutive common shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share in periods in which the effect would be antidilutive.
2020 Form 10-K 141
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share for each of the three years ended December 31 was as follows:
(1)The 2018 total diluted average common shares issued and outstanding was impacted by using the if-converted method.
(2)Reflects the total number of shares related to outstanding options that have been excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share because the impact would have been anti-dilutive.
16. NONINTEREST INCOME
Huntington earns a variety of revenue including interest and fees from customers as well as revenues from non-customers. Certain sources of revenue are recognized within interest or fee income and are outside of the scope of ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (“ASC 606”). Other sources of revenue fall within the scope of ASC 606 and are generally recognized within noninterest income. These revenues are included within various sections of the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table shows Huntington’s total noninterest income segregated between contracts with customers within the scope of ASC 606 and those within the scope of other GAAP Topics.
142 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
The following table illustrates the disaggregation by operating segment and major revenue stream and reconciles disaggregated revenue to segment revenue presented in Note 26 - “Segment Reporting”:
Huntington generally provides services for customers in which it acts as principal. Payment terms and conditions vary amongst services and customers, and thus impact the timing and amount of revenue recognition. Some fees may be paid before any service is rendered and accordingly, such fees are deferred until the obligations pertaining to those fees are satisfied. Most Huntington contracts with customers are cancelable by either party without penalty or they are short-term in nature, with a contract duration of less than one year. Accordingly, most revenue deferred for the reporting period ended December 31, 2020 is expected to be earned within one year. Huntington does not have significant balances of contract assets or contract liabilities and any change in those balances during the reporting period ended December 31, 2020 was determined to be immaterial.
2020 Form 10-K 143
17. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
Huntington sponsors nonqualified and incentive share based compensation plans. These plans provide for the granting of stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance share units and other awards to officers, directors, and other employees. Compensation costs are included in personnel costs on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Huntington issues shares to fulfill stock option exercises and restricted stock unit and award vesting from available authorized common shares. At December 31, 2020, Huntington believes there are adequate authorized common shares to satisfy anticipated stock option exercises and restricted stock unit award vesting in 2021.
The following table presents total share-based compensation expense and related tax benefit for the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan
In 2018, shareholders approved the Huntington Bancshares Incorporated 2018 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the 2018 Plan). Shares remaining under the 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan have been incorporated into the 2018 Plan. Accordingly, the total number of shares authorized under the 2018 Plan is 33 million shares. At December 31, 2020, 5 million shares from the Plan were available for future grants.
Stock Options
Stock options are granted at the closing market price on the date of the grant. Options granted typically vest ratably over four years or when other conditions are met. Stock options, which represented a portion of the grant values, have no intrinsic value until the stock price increases. Options granted on or after May 1, 2015 have a contractual term of ten years. All options granted on or before April 30, 2015 have a contractual term of seven years.
Huntington uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to value options in determining the share-based compensation expense. Forfeitures are estimated at the date of grant based on historical rates, and are updated as necessary, and reduce the compensation expense recognized. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the date of grant. The expected dividend yield is based on the dividend rate and stock price at the date of the grant. Expected volatility is based on the estimated volatility of Huntington’s stock over the expected term of the option.
The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used in the option pricing model at the grant date for options granted in the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
144 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Huntington’s stock option activity and related information for the year ended December 31, 2020, was as follows:
(1)The number of options expected to vest reflect an estimate of 239,000 shares expected to be forfeited.
The aggregate intrinsic value represents the amount by which the fair value of underlying stock exceeds the “in-the-money” option exercise price. The total intrinsic value of options exercised for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $6 million, $16 million and $52 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, cash received for the exercises of stock options was $1 million, $2 million and $5 million, respectively. The tax benefit realized for the tax deductions from option exercises totaled $1 million, $3 million and $10 million in 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Restricted Stock Units and Performance Share Units
Huntington also grants restricted stock units and performance share units. These units are granted at the closing market price on the date of the grant. Restricted stock units are issued at no cost to the recipient, and can be settled only in shares at the end of the vesting period. Restricted stock units do not provide the holder with voting rights or cash dividends during the vesting period, but do accrue a dividend equivalent that is paid upon vesting, and are subject to certain service restrictions. Performance share units are payable contingent upon Huntington achieving certain predefined performance objectives over the three-year measurement period. The fair value of these units reflect the closing market price of Huntington’s common stock on the grant date.
The following table summarizes the status of Huntington’s restricted stock units, and performance share units as of December 31, 2020, and activity for the year ended December 31, 2020:
The weighted-average fair value at grant date of nonvested shares granted for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 were $8.90, $13.91, and $14.98, respectively. The total fair value of awards vested during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $86 million, $69 million, and $62 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2020, the total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested shares was $91 million with a weighted-average expense recognition period of 2.4 years.
2020 Form 10-K 145
18. BENEFIT PLANS
Huntington sponsors a non-contributory defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all employees hired or rehired prior to January 1, 2010. The plan, which was modified in 2013, no longer accrues service benefits to participants and provides benefits based upon length of service and compensation levels. Huntington’s funding policy is to contribute an annual amount that is at least equal to the minimum funding requirements but not more than the amount deductible under the Internal Revenue Code. There were no required minimum contributions during 2020.
The following table shows the weighted-average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation at December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the net periodic benefit cost for the years then ended:
The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is an assumption reflecting the average rate of earnings expected on the funds invested or to be invested to provide for the benefits included in the projected benefit obligation. The expected long-term rate of return is established at the beginning of the plan year based upon historical returns and projected returns on the underlying mix of invested assets.
The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balances of the benefit obligation of the Plan with the amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31:
The increase in the benefit obligation compared with the end of the prior year is primarily attributed to a decrease in the discount rate.
The following table reconciles the beginning and ending balances of the fair value of plan assets at the December 31, 2020 and 2019 measurement dates:
As of December 31, 2020, the difference between the accumulated benefit obligation and the fair value of Huntington’s plan assets was $24 million and is recorded in other assets.
146 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
The following table shows the components of net periodic benefit costs recognized in the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(1) The pension costs are recognized in noninterest income - other income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
It is Huntington’s policy to recognize settlement gains and losses as incurred. Assuming no cash contributions are made to the plan during 2021, Huntington expects net periodic pension benefit, excluding any expense of settlements, to approximate $6 million for 2021.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, The Huntington National Bank, as trustee, held all plan assets. The plan assets consisted of investments in a variety of cash equivalent, corporate and government fixed income, and equity investments as follows:
Investments of the Plan are accounted for at cost on the trade date and are reported at fair value. The valuation methodologies used to measure the fair value of pension plan assets vary depending on the type of asset. At December 31, 2020, cash equivalent money market funds and U.S. Treasury bills are valued at the closing price reported from an actively traded exchange and are classified as Level 1. Fixed income investments are valued using unadjusted quoted prices from active markets for similar assets are classified as Level 2. Common and preferred stock are valued using the year-end closing price as determined by a national securities exchange and are classified as Level 1. Collective trust funds and limited liability companies are valued at net asset value per unit as a practical expedient, which is calculated based on the fair values of the underlying investments held by the fund less its liabilities as reported by the issuer of the fund. The investment in the limited partnerships is reported at net asset value per share as determined by the general partners of each limited partnership, based on their proportionate share of the partnership’s fair value as recorded in the partnership’s audited financial statements.
The investment objective of the plan is to maximize the return on plan assets over a long-time period, while meeting the plan obligations. At December 31, 2020, plan assets were invested 2% in cash equivalents, 17% in equity investments, and 81% in bonds, with an average duration of 15.3 years on bond investments. The estimated life of benefit obligations was 13.5 years. Although it may fluctuate with market conditions, Huntington has targeted a long-term allocation of plan assets of 20% to 50% in equity investments and 80% to 50% in bond investments. The allocation of plan assets between equity investments and fixed income investments will change from time to time.
2020 Form 10-K 147
At December 31, 2020, the following table shows when benefit payments were expected to be paid:
Huntington also sponsors an unfunded defined benefit post-retirement plan as well as other nonqualified retirement plans.
The following table presents the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2020 and 2019, for all defined benefit and nonqualified retirement plans:
The following tables present the amounts recognized in OCI as of December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, and the changes in accumulated OCI for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
148 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Huntington has a defined contribution plan that is available to eligible employees. Huntington’s expense related to the defined contribution plans for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $47 million, $51 million, and $46 million, respectively.
The following table shows the number of shares, market value, and dividends received on shares of Huntington stock held by the defined contribution plan:
19. INCOME TAXES
The following is a summary of the provision (benefit) for income taxes:
The following is a reconciliation for provision for income taxes:
2020 Form 10-K 149
The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:
At December 31, 2020, Huntington’s net deferred tax asset related to net operating loss and other carryforwards was $128 million. This was comprised of federal net operating loss carryforwards of $45 million, which will begin expiring in 2029, $39 million of state net operating loss carryforwards, which will begin expiring in 2021, and a capital loss carryforward of $42 million, which will begin expiring in 2022.
The Company has established a valuation allowance on its state deferred tax assets as it believes it is more likely than not, portions will not be realized.
The Company and its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state and city jurisdictions. Federal income tax audits have been completed for tax years through 2009. In 2019, the 2010 and 2011 audits were submitted to the Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congress for approval. During the 2020 third quarter, the Joint Committee referred the audit back to the IRS exam team for reconsideration. This action led to the re-characterization of the audit resolution from a settlement to an uncertain tax position. While the statute of limitations remains open for tax years 2012 through 2019, the IRS has advised that tax years 2012 through 2014 will not be audited and is currently examining the 2015 and 2016 federal income tax returns. Also, with few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to state and local income tax examinations for tax years before 2016.
The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits:
Due to the complexities of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a liability that is materially different from the current estimate of the tax liabilities. We do not currently anticipate that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly change over the next 12 months.
Any interest and penalties on income tax assessments or income tax refunds are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of provision for income taxes. The amounts of accrued tax-related interest and penalties were immaterial at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Further, the amount of net interest and penalties
150 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
related to unrecognized tax benefits was immaterial for all periods presented. All of the gross unrecognized tax benefits would impact the Company’s effective tax rate if recognized.
At December 31, 2020, retained earnings included approximately $12 million of base year reserves of acquired thrift institutions, for which no deferred federal income tax liability has been recognized. Under current law, if these bad debt reserves are used for purposes other than to absorb bad debt losses, they will be subject to federal income tax at the corporate tax rate enacted at the time. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liability relating to the cumulative bad debt deduction was approximately $3 million at December 31, 2020.
20. FAIR VALUES OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
Loans held for sale
Huntington has elected to apply the fair value option for mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell which are included in loans held for sale. Mortgage loans held for sale are classified as Level 2 and are estimated using security prices for similar product types.
Loans held for investment
Certain mortgage loans originated with the intent to sell for which the FVO was elected have been reclassified to mortgage loans held for investment. These loans continue to be measured at fair value. The fair value is determined using fair value of similar mortgage-backed securities adjusted for loan specific variables.
Huntington elected the fair value option for certain consumer loans with deteriorated credit quality. These consumer loans are classified as Level 3. The key assumption used to determine the fair value of the consumer loans is discounted cash flows.
Available-for-sale securities and trading account securities
Securities accounted for at fair value include both the available-for-sale and trading portfolios. Huntington determines the fair value of securities utilizing quoted market prices obtained for identical or similar assets, third-party pricing services, third-party valuation specialists and other observable inputs such as recent trade observations. AFS and trading securities classified as Level 1 use quoted market prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical securities at the measurement date. Less than 1% of the positions in these portfolios are Level 1, and consist of U.S. Treasury securities and money market mutual funds. When quoted market prices are not available, fair values are classified as Level 2 using quoted prices for similar assets in active markets, quoted prices of identical or similar assets in markets that are not active, and inputs that are observable for the asset, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 2 represents 82% of the positions in these portfolios, which consists of U.S. Government and agency debt securities, agency mortgage backed securities, private-label asset-backed securities, certain municipal securities and other securities. For Level 2 securities Huntington primarily uses prices obtained from third-party pricing services to determine the fair value of securities. Huntington independently evaluates and corroborates the fair value received from pricing services through various methods and techniques, including references to dealer or other market quotes, by reviewing valuations of comparable instruments, and by comparing the prices realized on the sale of similar securities. If relevant market prices are limited or unavailable, valuations may require significant management judgment or estimation to determine fair value, in which case the fair values are classified as Level 3, which represent 18% of the positions. The Level 3 positions predominantly consist of direct purchase municipal securities. A significant change in the unobservable inputs for these securities may result in a significant change in the ending fair value measurement of these securities.
The direct purchase municipal securities are classified as Level 3 and require significant estimates to determine fair value which results in greater subjectivity. The fair value is determined by utilizing a discounted cash flow valuation technique employed by a third-party valuation specialist. The third-party specialist uses assumptions related to yield, prepayment speed, conditional default rates and loss severity based on certain factors such as,
2020 Form 10-K 151
credit worthiness of the counterparty, prevailing market rates, and analysis of similar securities. Huntington evaluates the fair values provided by the third-party specialist for reasonableness.
Derivative assets and liabilities
Derivatives classified as Level 2 consist of foreign exchange and commodity contracts, which are valued using exchange traded swaps and futures market data. In addition, Level 2 includes interest rate contracts, which are valued using a discounted cash flow method that incorporates current market interest rates. Level 2 also includes exchange traded options and forward commitments to deliver mortgage-backed securities, which are valued using quoted prices.
Derivatives classified as Level 3 consist of interest rate lock agreements related to mortgage loan commitments and the Visa® share swap. The determination of fair value of the interest rate locks includes assumptions related to the likelihood that a commitment will ultimately result in a closed loan, which is a significant unobservable assumption. A significant increase or decrease in the external market price would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value measurement.
Assets and Liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2020 and 2019 are summarized below:
152 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
(1)Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Company to settle positive and negative positions and cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties.
2020 Form 10-K 153
The tables below present a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 for financial instruments measured on a recurring basis and classified as Level 3. The classification of an item as Level 3 is based on the significance of the unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement. However, Level 3 measurements may also include observable components of value that can be validated externally. Accordingly, the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due in part to observable factors that are part of the valuation methodology.
154 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
(1) Transfers out of Level 3 represent the settlement value of the derivative instruments (i.e. interest rate lock agreements) that are transferred to loans held for sale, which is classified as Level 2.
The tables below summarize the classification of gains and losses due to changes in fair value, recorded in earnings for Level 3 assets and liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
2020 Form 10-K 155
Assets and liabilities under the fair value option
The following tables present the fair value and aggregate principal balance of certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option:
The following tables present the net gains from fair value changes for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
(1)The net gains (losses) from fair value changes are included in Mortgage banking income on the Consolidated Statements of Income.
Assets and Liabilities measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis
Certain assets and liabilities may be required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in periods subsequent to their initial recognition. These assets and liabilities are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis; however, they are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances, such as when there is evidence of impairment. The amounts presented represent the fair value on the various measurement dates throughout the period. The gains(losses) represent the amounts recorded during the period regardless of whether the asset is still held at period end.
The amounts measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2020 were as follows:
Huntington records nonrecurring adjustments of collateral-dependent loans held for investment. Such amounts are generally based on the fair value of the underlying collateral supporting the loan. Appraisals are generally obtained to support the fair value of the collateral and incorporate measures such as recent sales prices for comparable properties and cost of construction. Periodically, in cases where the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the collateral less cost to sell, an impairment charge is recognized in the form of a charge-off.
Loans held for sale are measured at lower of cost or fair value less costs to sell. The fair value of loans held for sale is based on binding or non-binding bids for the respective loans or similar loans.
156 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis
The table below presents quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring and nonrecurring basis at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(1) Certain disclosures related to quantitative level 3 fair value measurements do not include those deemed to be immaterial.
The following provides a general description of the impact of a change in an unobservable input on the fair value measurement and the interrelationship between unobservable inputs, where relevant/significant. Interrelationships may also exist between observable and unobservable inputs.
Credit loss estimates, such as probability of default, constant default, cumulative default, loss given default, cure given deferral, and loss severity, are driven by the ability of the borrowers to pay their loans and the value of the underlying collateral and are impacted by changes in macroeconomic conditions, typically increasing when economic conditions worsen and decreasing when conditions improve. An increase in the estimated prepayment rate typically results in a decrease in estimated credit losses and vice versa. Higher credit loss estimates generally result in lower fair values. Credit spreads generally increase when liquidity risks and market volatility increase and decrease when liquidity conditions and market volatility improve.
Discount rates and spread over forward interest rate swap rates typically increase when market interest rates increase and/or credit and liquidity risks increase, and decrease when market interest rates decline and/or credit and liquidity conditions improve. Higher discount rates and credit spreads generally result in lower fair market values.
Net market price and pull through percentages generally increase when market interest rates increase and decline when market interest rates decline. Higher net market price and pull through percentages generally result in higher fair values.
2020 Form 10-K 157
Fair values of financial instruments
The following table provides the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of Huntington’s financial instruments at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019:
(1)Includes collateral-dependent loans.
158 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
The following table presents the level in the fair value hierarchy for the estimated fair values at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019:
(1)Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Company to settle positive and negative positions and cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties.
(2)Excludes securities without readily determinable fair values.
The short-term nature of certain assets and liabilities result in their carrying value approximating fair value. These include trading account securities, customers’ acceptance liabilities, short-term borrowings, bank acceptances outstanding, FHLB advances, and cash and short-term assets, which include cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits in banks, interest-bearing deposits at Federal Reserve Bank, federal funds sold, and securities purchased under resale agreements. Loan commitments and letters-of-credit generally have short-term, variable-rate features and contain clauses that limit Huntington’s exposure to changes in customer credit quality. Accordingly, their carrying values, which are immaterial at the respective balance sheet dates, are reasonable estimates of fair value.
Certain assets, the most significant being operating lease assets, bank owned life insurance, and premises and equipment, do not meet the definition of a financial instrument and are excluded from this disclosure. Similarly, mortgage servicing rights, deposit base, and other customer relationship intangibles are not considered financial instruments and are not included above. Accordingly, this fair value information is not intended to, and does not, represent Huntington’s underlying value. Many of the assets and liabilities subject to the disclosure requirements are not actively traded, requiring fair values to be estimated by Management. These estimations necessarily involve the use of judgment about a wide variety of factors, including but not limited to, relevancy of market prices of comparable instruments, expected future cash flows, and appropriate discount rates.
2020 Form 10-K 159
21. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Derivative financial instruments are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as either an asset or a liability (in other assets or other liabilities, respectively) and measured at fair value.
Derivative financial instruments can be designated as accounting hedges under GAAP. Designating a derivative as an accounting hedge allows Huntington to recognize gains and losses on the hedging instruments in the income statement line item where the gains and losses on the hedged item are recognized. Gains and losses on derivatives that are not designated in an effective hedge relationship under GAAP immediately impact earnings within the period they occur.
The following table presents the fair values and notional values of all derivative instruments included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Amounts in the table below are presented gross without the impact of any net collateral arrangements.
The following table presents the amount of gain or loss recognized in income for derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under ASC Subtopic 815-10 in the Consolidated Income Statement for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Derivatives used in asset and liability management activities
Huntington engages in balance sheet hedging activity, principally for asset and liability management purposes. Balance sheet hedging activity is generally arranged to receive hedge accounting treatment that can be classified as either fair value or cash flow hedges. Fair value hedges are executed to hedge changes in fair value of outstanding fixed-rate debt and investment securities caused by fluctuations in market interest rates. Cash flow hedges are executed to modify interest rate characteristics of designated commercial loans in order to reduce the impact of changes in future cash flows due to market interest rate changes.
160 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
The following table presents the gross notional values of derivatives used in Huntington’s asset and liability management activities at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, identified by the underlying interest rate-sensitive instruments:
These derivative financial instruments were entered into for the purpose of managing the interest rate risk of assets and liabilities. Net amounts receivable or payable on contracts hedging either interest earning assets or interest bearing liabilities were accrued as an adjustment to either interest income or interest expense. Also, recorded as an adjustment to interest income were the amounts related to amortization of floor and forward-starting floor premiums that were excluded from the hedge effectiveness, changes in the fair value of economic hedges, as well as the amounts related to terminated hedges reclassified from AOCI. The net amounts resulted in an increase (decrease) to net interest income of $239 million, $(53) million, and $(36) million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Fair Value Hedges
The changes in fair value of the fair value hedges are recorded through earnings and offset against changes in the fair value of the hedged item.
Huntington has designated $3.1 billion of interest rate swaps as fair value hedges of fixed-rate investment securities using the last-of-layer method. This approach allows the Company to designate as the hedged item a stated amount of the assets that are not expected to be affected by prepayments, defaults and other factors affecting the timing and amount of cash flows. The fair value basis adjustment on our hedged mortgage-backed securities is included in available-for-sale securities on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition.
The following table presents the change in fair value for derivatives designated as fair value hedges as well as the offsetting change in fair value on the hedged item for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(1)Recognized in Interest income-available-for-sale securities-taxable in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
(2)Recognized in Interest expense - long-term debt in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
2020 Form 10-K 161
As of December 31, 2020, the following amounts were recorded on the balance sheet related to cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges.
(1)Amounts include the amortized cost basis of closed portfolios used to designate hedging relationships in which the hedged item is the last layer expected to be remaining at the end of the hedging relationship. As of December 31, 2020, the amortized cost basis of the closed portfolios used in these hedging relationships was $6.2 billion, the cumulative basis adjustments associated with these hedging relationships was $2 million, and the amounts of the designated hedged items were $3.1 billion.
The cumulative amount of fair value hedging adjustments remaining for any hedged assets and liabilities for which hedge accounting has been discontinued is $(62) million at December 31, 2020 and $(93) million at December 31, 2019.
Cash Flow Hedges
At December 31, 2020, Huntington has $17.4 billion of interest rate floors, floor spreads, and swaps. These are designated as cash flow hedges for variable rate commercial loans indexed to LIBOR. The change in the fair value of a derivative instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is initially recognized in OCI and is reclassified into income when the hedged item impacts earnings. The initial premium paid for the interest rate floor contracts represents the time value of the contracts and is not included in the measurement of hedge effectiveness. Any change in fair value related to time value is recognized in OCI. The initial premium paid is amortized on a straight line basis as a reduction to interest income over the contractual life of these contracts.
Gains on interest rate floors, floor spreads, and swaps recognized in other comprehensive income were $234 million and $23 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. No gains were recognized for the year ended December 31, 2018. At December 31, 2020, the net gains recognized in AOCI that are expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months were $37 million.
Derivatives used in mortgage banking activities
Mortgage loan origination hedging activity
Huntington’s mortgage origination hedging activity is related to economically hedging of Huntington’s mortgage pricing commitments to customers and the secondary sale to third parties. The value of a newly originated mortgage is not firm until the interest rate is committed or locked. Forward commitments to sell economically hedge the possible loss on interest rate lock commitments due to interest rate change. The net asset position of these derivatives at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 are $26 million and $6 million, respectively. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, Huntington had commitments to sell residential real estate loans of $2.9 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. These contracts mature in less than one year.
162 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
MSR hedging activity
Huntington’s MSR economic hedging activity uses securities and derivatives to manage the value of the MSR asset and to mitigate the various types of risk inherent in the MSR asset, including risks related to duration, basis, convexity, volatility, and yield curve. The hedging instruments include forward commitments, TBA securities, Treasury futures contracts, interest rate swaps, and options on interest rate swaps.
The notional value of the derivative financial instruments, the corresponding net asset (liability) position recognized in other assets and/or other liabilities, and net trading gains (losses) related to MSR hedging activity is summarized in the following table:
MSR hedging trading assets and liabilities are included in other assets and other liabilities, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Trading gains (losses) are included in mortgage banking income in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
Derivatives used in customer related activities
Various derivative financial instruments are offered to enable customers to meet their financing and investing objectives and for their risk management purposes. Derivative financial instruments used in trading activities consist of commodity, interest rate, and foreign exchange contracts. Huntington enters into offsetting third-party contracts with approved, reputable counterparties with substantially matching terms and currencies in order to economically hedge significant exposure related to derivatives used in trading activities.
The interest rate or price risk of customer derivatives is mitigated by entering into similar derivatives having offsetting terms with other counterparties. The credit risk to these customers is evaluated and included in the calculation of fair value. Foreign currency derivatives help the customer hedge risk and reduce exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates. Transactions are primarily in liquid currencies with Canadian dollars and Euros comprising a majority of all transactions. Commodity derivatives help the customer hedge risk and reduce exposure to fluctuations in the price of various commodities. Hedging of energy-related products and base metals comprise the majority of these transactions.
The net fair values of these derivative financial instruments, for which the gross amounts are included in other assets or other liabilities at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, were $70 million and $87 million, respectively. The total notional values of derivative financial instruments used by Huntington on behalf of customers, including offsetting derivatives, were $37 billion and $30 billion at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. Huntington’s credit risk from customer derivatives was $882 million and $407 million at the same dates, respectively.
Financial assets and liabilities that are offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
Huntington records derivatives at fair value as further described in Note 20 - “Fair Values of Assets and Liabilities”.
Derivative balances are presented on a net basis taking into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements. Additionally, collateral exchanged with counterparties is also netted against the applicable derivative fair values. Huntington enters into derivative transactions with two primary groups: broker-dealers and banks, and Huntington’s customers. Different methods are utilized for managing counterparty credit exposure and credit risk for each of these groups.
Huntington enters into transactions with broker-dealers and banks for various risk management purposes. These types of transactions generally are high dollar volume. Huntington enters into collateral and master netting agreements with these counterparties, and routinely exchanges cash and high quality securities collateral.
2020 Form 10-K 163
Huntington enters into transactions with customers to meet their financing, investing, payment and risk management needs. These types of transactions generally are low dollar volume. Huntington enters into master netting agreements with customer counterparties, however collateral is generally not exchanged with customer counterparties.
In addition to the customer derivative credit exposure, aggregate credit risk associated with broker-dealer and bank derivative transactions, net of collateral that has been pledged by the counterparty, was $175 million and $22 million at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. The credit risk associated with derivatives is calculated after considering master netting agreements.
At December 31, 2020, Huntington pledged $276 million of investment securities and cash collateral to counterparties, while other counterparties pledged $387 million of investment securities and cash collateral to Huntington to satisfy collateral netting agreements. In the event of credit downgrades, Huntington would not be required to provide additional collateral.
The following tables present the gross amounts of these assets and liabilities with any offsets to arrive at the net amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019:
22. VIEs
Unconsolidated VIEs
The following tables provide a summary of the assets and liabilities included in Huntington’s Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the maximum exposure to losses, associated with its interests related to unconsolidated VIEs for which Huntington holds an interest in, but is not the primary beneficiary of, the VIE at December 31, 2020, and 2019:
164 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Trust-Preferred Securities
Huntington has certain consolidated trusts whose assets, liabilities, equity, income, and expenses are not included within Huntington’s Consolidated Financial Statements. These trusts have been formed for the sole purpose of issuing trust-preferred securities, from which the proceeds are then invested in Huntington junior subordinated debentures, which are reflected in Huntington’s Consolidated Balance Sheet as long-term debt. The trust securities are the obligations of the trusts, and as such, are not consolidated within Huntington’s Consolidated Financial Statements.
A list of trust-preferred securities outstanding at December 31, 2020 follows:
(1)Represents the principal amount of debentures issued to each trust, including unamortized original issue discount.
(2)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR + 0.70%.
(3)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR + 0.625%.
(4)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three-month LIBOR + 1.40%.
(5)Variable effective rate at December 31, 2020, based on three month LIBOR + 1.33%.
Each issue of the junior subordinated debentures has an interest rate equal to the corresponding trust securities distribution rate. Huntington has the right to defer payment of interest on the debentures at any time, or from time-to-time for a period not exceeding five years provided that no extension period may extend beyond the stated maturity of the related debentures. During any such extension period, distributions to the trust securities will also be deferred and Huntington’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock will be restricted. Periodic cash payments and payments upon liquidation or redemption with respect to trust securities are guaranteed by Huntington to the extent of funds held by the trusts. The guarantee ranks subordinate and junior in right of payment to all indebtedness of the Company to the same extent as the junior subordinated debt. The guarantee does not place a limitation on the amount of additional indebtedness that may be incurred by Huntington.
Affordable Housing Tax Credit Partnerships
Huntington makes certain equity investments in various limited partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects utilizing the LIHTC pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code. The purpose of these investments is to achieve a satisfactory return on capital, to facilitate the sale of additional affordable housing product offerings, and to assist in achieving goals associated with the Community Reinvestment Act. The primary activities of the limited partnerships include the identification, development, and operation of multi-family housing that is leased to qualifying residential tenants. Generally, these types of investments are funded through a combination of debt and equity.
Huntington uses the proportional amortization method to account for a majority of its investments in these entities. These investments are included in other assets. Investments that do not meet the requirements of the proportional amortization method are accounted for using the equity method. Investment losses related to these investments are included in noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
The following table presents the balances of Huntington’s affordable housing tax credit investments and related unfunded commitments at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
2020 Form 10-K 165
The following table presents other information relating to Huntington’s affordable housing tax credit investments for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
Other Investments
Other investments determined to be VIE’s include investments in Small Business Investment Companies, Historic Tax Credit Investments, certain equity method investments, renewable energy financings, and other miscellaneous investments.
23. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
Commitments to extend credit
In the ordinary course of business, Huntington makes various commitments to extend credit that are not reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The contract amounts of these financial agreements at December 31, 2020, and December 31, 2019 were as follows:
Commitments to extend credit generally have fixed expiration dates, are variable-rate, and contain clauses that permit Huntington to terminate or otherwise renegotiate the contracts in the event of a significant deterioration in the customer’s credit quality. These arrangements normally require the payment of a fee by the customer, the pricing of which is based on prevailing market conditions, credit quality, probability of funding, and other relevant factors. Since many of these commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the contract amounts are not necessarily indicative of future cash requirements. The interest rate risk arising from these financial instruments is insignificant as a result of their predominantly short-term, variable-rate nature.
Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third-party. These guarantees are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financing, and similar transactions. Most of these arrangements mature within two years. The carrying amount of deferred revenue associated with these guarantees was $5 million and $8 million at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively.
Commercial letters of credit represent short-term, self-liquidating instruments that facilitate customer trade transactions and generally have maturities of no longer than 90 days. The goods or cargo being traded normally secure these instruments.
Litigation and Regulatory Matters
In the ordinary course of business, Huntington is routinely a defendant in or party to pending and threatened legal and regulatory actions and proceedings.
In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly where the claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages or where the matters present novel legal theories or involve a large number of parties, Huntington generally cannot predict what the eventual outcome of the pending matters will be,
166 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
what the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters will be, or what the eventual loss, fines, or penalties related to each matter may be.
Huntington establishes an accrued liability when those matters present loss contingencies that are both probable and estimable. In such cases, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. Huntington thereafter continues to monitor the matter for further developments that could affect the amount of the accrued liability that has been previously established.
For certain matters, Huntington is able to estimate a range of possible loss. In cases in which Huntington possesses information to estimate a range of possible loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed below. There may be other matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible but such an estimate of the range of possible loss may not be possible. For those matters where an estimate of the range of possible loss is possible, management currently estimates the aggregate range of reasonably possible loss is $0 to $10 million at December 31, 2020 in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters. This estimated range of possible loss is based upon currently available information and is subject to significant judgment, a variety of assumptions, and known and unknown uncertainties. The matters underlying the estimated range will change from time to time, and actual results may vary significantly from the current estimate. The estimated range of possible loss does not represent Huntington’s maximum loss exposure.
Based on current knowledge, management does not believe that loss contingencies arising from pending matters will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position of Huntington. Further, management believes that amounts accrued are adequate to address Huntington’s contingent liabilities. However, in light of the inherent uncertainties involved in these matters, some of which are beyond Huntington’s control, and the large or indeterminate damages sought in some of these matters, an adverse outcome in one or more of these matters could be material to Huntington’s results of operations for any particular reporting period.
24. OTHER REGULATORY MATTERS
Huntington and the Bank are subject to certain risk-based capital and leverage ratio requirements under the U.S. Basel III capital rules adopted by the Federal Reserve, for Huntington, and by the OCC, for the Bank. These rules implement the Basel III international regulatory capital standards in the United States, as well as certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. These quantitative calculations are minimums, and the Federal Reserve and OCC may determine that a banking organization, based on its size, complexity or risk profile, must maintain a higher level of capital in order to operate in a safe and sound manner.
Under the U.S. Basel III capital rules, Huntington’s and the Bank’s assets, exposures and certain off-balance sheet items are subject to risk weights used to determine the institutions’ risk-weighted assets. These risk-weighted assets are used to calculate the following minimum capital ratios for Huntington and the Bank:
CET1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets. CET1 capital primarily includes common shareholders’ equity subject to certain regulatory adjustments and deductions, including with respect to goodwill, intangible assets, certain deferred tax assets, and AOCI.
Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 capital is primarily comprised of CET1 capital, perpetual preferred stock and certain qualifying capital instruments.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio, equal to the ratio of total capital, including CET1 capital, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital, to risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital primarily includes qualifying subordinated debt and qualifying ALLL. Tier 2 capital also includes, among other things, certain trust preferred securities.
Tier 1 Leverage Ratio, equal to the ratio of Tier 1 capital to quarterly average assets (net of goodwill, certain other intangible assets and certain other deductions).
The total minimum regulatory capital ratios and well-capitalized minimum ratios are reflected on the following page.
Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could result in certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have an adverse material effect on our operations or financial condition. Failure to be well-capitalized or to meet minimum capital requirements could
2020 Form 10-K 167
also result in restrictions on Huntington’s or the Bank’s ability to pay dividends or otherwise distribute capital or to receive regulatory approval of applications.
In addition to meeting the minimum capital requirements, under the U.S. Basel III capital rules Huntington and the Bank must also maintain the required stress capital buffer and Capital Conservation Buffer, respectively, to avoid becoming subject to restrictions on capital distributions and certain discretionary bonus payments to management. The Capital Conservation Buffer is calculated as a ratio of CET1 capital to risk-weighted assets, and it effectively increases the required minimum risk-based capital ratios. In March 2020, the Federal Reserve replaced the existing Capital Conservation Buffer with the stress capital buffer, which has been established as 2.5% for Huntington.
As of December 31, 2020, Huntington’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios were above the well-capitalized standards and met the applicable stress capital buffer and the Capital Conservation Buffer, respectively. Please refer to the table below for a summary of Huntington’s and the Bank’s regulatory capital ratios as of December 31, 2020, calculated using the regulatory capital methodology applicable during 2020.
(1) Reflects the stress capital buffer of 2.5% for Huntington and the Capital Conservation Buffer of 2.5% for the Bank.
Huntington and its subsidiaries are also subject to various regulatory requirements that impose restrictions on cash, debt, and dividends. The Bank is required to maintain cash reserves based on the level of certain of its deposits. This reserve requirement may be met by holding cash in banking offices or on deposit at the FRB. During 2020 and 2019, the average balances of these deposits were $3.9 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively.
Under current Federal Reserve regulations, the Bank is limited as to the amount and type of loans it may make to the parent company and nonbank subsidiaries. At December 31, 2020, the Bank could lend $1.2 billion to a single affiliate, subject to the qualifying collateral requirements defined in the regulations.
Dividends from the Bank are one of the major sources of funds for the Company. These funds aid the Company in the payment of dividends to shareholders, expenses, and other obligations. Payment of dividends and/or return of capital to the parent company is subject to various legal and regulatory limitations. During 2020, the Bank paid dividends of $1.5 billion to the holding company. Also, there are statutory and regulatory limitations on the ability of national banks to pay dividends or make other capital distributions.
168 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
25. PARENT-ONLY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The parent-only financial statements, which include transactions with subsidiaries, are as follows:
(1)See Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity.
(1)See Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for other comprehensive income (loss) detail.
2020 Form 10-K 169
26. SEGMENT REPORTING
Huntington’s business segments are based on our internally-aligned segment leadership structure, which is how management monitors results and assesses performance. The Company has four major business segments: Consumer and Business Banking, Commercial Banking, Vehicle Finance, Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group (RBHPCG). The Treasury / Other function includes technology and operations, other unallocated assets, liabilities, revenue, and expense.
Business segment results are determined based upon Huntington’s management reporting system, which assigns balance sheet and income statement items to each of the business segments. The process is designed around the organizational and management structure and, accordingly, the results derived are not necessarily comparable with similar information published by other financial institutions. Additionally, because of the interrelationships of the various segments, the information presented is not indicative of how the segments would perform if they operated as independent entities.
Revenue is recorded in the business segment responsible for the related product or service. Fee sharing is recorded to allocate portions of such revenue to other business segments involved in selling to, or providing service to customers. Results of operations for the business segments reflect these fee sharing allocations.
The management process that develops the business segment reporting utilizes various estimates and allocation methodologies to measure the performance of the business segments. Expenses are allocated to business segments using a two-phase approach. The first phase consists of measuring and assigning unit costs (activity-based costs) to activities related to product origination and servicing. These activity-based costs are then extended, based on volumes, with the resulting amount allocated to business segments that own the related products. The second phase consists of the allocation of overhead costs to all four business segments from Treasury / Other. Huntington
170 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
utilizes a full-allocation methodology, where all Treasury / Other expenses, except a small amount of other residual unallocated expenses, are allocated to the four business segments.
The management policies and processes utilized in compiling segment financial information are highly subjective and, unlike financial accounting, are not based on authoritative guidance similar to GAAP. As a result, reported segment results are not necessarily comparable with similar information reported by other financial institutions. Furthermore, changes in management structure or allocation methodologies and procedures result in changes in reported segment financial data. Accordingly, certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
Huntington uses an active and centralized FTP methodology to attribute appropriate net interest income to the business segments. The intent of the FTP methodology is to transfer interest rate risk from the business segments by providing matched duration funding of assets and liabilities. The result is to centralize the financial impact, management, and reporting of interest rate risk in the Treasury / Other function where it can be centrally monitored and managed. The Treasury / Other function charges (credits) an internal cost of funds for assets held in (or pays for funding provided by) each business segment. The FTP rate is based on prevailing market interest rates for comparable duration assets (or liabilities).
Consumer and Business Banking - The Consumer and Business Banking segment, including Home Lending, provides a wide array of financial products and services to consumer and small business customers including but not limited to checking accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, mortgage loans, consumer loans, credit cards, and small business loans and investment products. Other financial services available to customers include insurance, interest rate risk protection, foreign exchange, and treasury management. Business Banking is defined as serving companies with revenues up to $20 million. Home Lending supports origination and servicing of consumer loans and mortgages for customers who are generally located in our primary banking markets across all segments.
Commercial Banking - Through a relationship banking model, this segment provides a wide array of products and services to the middle market, large corporate, real estate and government public sector customers located primarily within our geographic footprint. The segment is divided into four business units: Relationship Banking Group, Specialized Lending Group, Treasury Management/Deposits Group and Capital Markets Group.
Vehicle Finance - Our products and services include providing financing to consumers for the purchase of automobiles, light-duty trucks, recreational vehicles, and marine craft at franchised and other select dealerships, and providing financing to franchised dealerships for the acquisition of new and used inventory. Products and services are delivered through highly specialized relationship-focused bankers and product partners.
Regional Banking and The Huntington Private Client Group - The core business of The Huntington Private Client Group is The Huntington Private Bank, which consists of Private Banking, Wealth & Investment Management, and Retirement Plan Services. The Huntington Private Bank provides high net-worth customers with deposit, lending (including specialized lending options), and banking services. The Huntington Private Bank also delivers wealth management and legacy planning through investment and portfolio management, fiduciary administration, and trust services. This group also provides retirement plan services to corporate businesses. The Huntington Private Client Group provides corporate trust services and institutional and mutual fund custody services.
2020 Form 10-K 171
Listed in the table below is certain operating basis financial information reconciled to Huntington’s December 31, 2020, December 31, 2019, and December 31, 2018, reported results by business segment:
172 Huntington Bancshares Incorporated
Item 9:

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 6660cef07d2e165b977eab842d1496fb
- Approx. Length: 32174 characters