# Context

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Index to Consolidated Financial Statements
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
DXC Technology Company
Tysons, Virginia
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of DXC Technology Company and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive (loss) income, cash flows, and changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of March 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of March 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated June 1, 2020, expressed an adverse opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting because of a material weakness.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Goodwill - GBS and GIS reporting units - Refer to Note 1 and Note 11 to the financial statements
Critical Audit Matter description
The Company’s evaluation of goodwill for impairment involves the determination of reporting units and comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company identified two reporting units, Global Business Services ("GBS") and Global Infrastructure Services ("GIS"). The identification of reporting units involves consideration of components of the operating segments and whether or not there is discrete financial information available that is regularly reviewed by management. Additionally, the Company considers whether or not it is reasonable to aggregate any of the identified components that have similar economic characteristics. The Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units using a combination of an income approach, utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis, and a market approach, using market multiples. The estimation of the fair value using the discounted cash flow model requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to forecasts of future revenue growth rates, operating margins, and discount rates. GBS and GIS’s revenue growth rates and operating margins are sensitive to changes in customer demand. The determination of the fair value using the market approach requires management to make significant judgments related to performance-metric market multiples applied to the reporting unit’s prior and expected operating performance.
The Company performed their annual impairment test as of July 1, 2019, and, due to a subsequent sustained decline in the Company’s stock price and market capitalization, updated impairment tests were completed during the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2020. The Company concluded that the carrying values of GBS and GIS reporting units exceeded their fair values and, therefore, an impairment was recognized in the amount of $3,789 million and $3,005 million, respectively, during fiscal 2020. As of March 31, 2020, after recording the impairments, goodwill for the GBS and GIS reporting units was $2,017 million and $0, respectively.
We identified the Company’s determination of reporting units and evaluation of goodwill impairment for the GBS and GIS reporting units as a critical audit matter because of the significant judgments made by management to identify and aggregate reporting units and estimate the fair value of each reporting unit. A high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists, was required when performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s estimates and assumptions related to the identification of reporting units; revenue growth rates and operating margins; the selection of reporting unit performance-metric market multiples and discount rates; and the reconciliation of the reporting units estimated fair value to the Company’s market capitalization.
How the Critical Accounting Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the determination of reporting units, revenue growth rates, selection of reporting unit performance-metric market multiples and discount rates, and reconciliation of market capitalization for the GBS and GIS reporting units included the following, among others:
•
We tested the effectiveness of controls over management’s determination of reporting units and goodwill impairment evaluation, including those over the determination of the fair value of GBS and GIS, such as controls related to management’s revenue forecasts, selection of the discount rates, selection of performance-metric market multiples, and market capitalization reconciliation.
•
We evaluated management’s identification of reporting units, including consideration of components of its operating segments, the availability of discrete financial information for each that is regularly reviewed by management, and the suitability of aggregation of components.
•
We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s forecasts by comparing the forecasts to (1) historical results, including management’s forecasting accuracy, (2) internal communications to management and the Board of Directors, (3) forecasted information included in Company press releases as well as in analyst and industry reports of the Company and companies in its peer group, and (4) analyzing and comparing forecasts to the Company’s revenue backlog and sales pipeline.
•
We evaluated the impact of changes in management’s forecasts on each of the impairment test dates during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020.
•
With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of:
-
Discount rates, including testing the underlying source information and the mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and developing a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rates selected by management.
-
Performance-metric multiples, including testing the underlying source information and mathematical accuracy of the calculations, and comparing the multiples selected by management to its peer group.
-
Reconciliation and comparison of the fair value of the GBS and GIS reporting units to the Company’s market capitalization.
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
McLean, Virginia
June 1, 2020
We have served as the Company's auditor since at least 1965; however, an earlier year could not be reliably determined.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME
(1) Tax (benefit) expense related to foreign currency translation adjustments was $(2), $(1), and $75 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, March 31, 2019, March 31, 2018, respectively.
(2) Tax benefit related to cash flow hedge adjustments was $5, $3, and $3 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, March 31, 2019, March 31, 2018, respectively.
(3) Tax expense related to available-for-sale securities was $0, $0, and $2 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, March 31, 2019, March 31, 2018, respectively.
(4) Tax (benefit) expense related to prior service costs was $0, $(5), and $8 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, March 31, 2019, March 31, 2018, respectively.
(5)There was no tax benefit related to transition obligation.
(6) Tax benefit related to amortization of prior service costs was $1, $2, and $4 for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, March 31, 2019, March 31, 2018, respectively.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(1) As a result of the USPS Separation, the Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets, and related financial information reflect USPS's operations and assets and liabilities as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The cash flows of USPS have not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash flows for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and through the separation date of May 31, 2018 in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
(1)
Certain prior year amounts were adjusted to retroactively reflect the legal capital of DXC.
(2)
See Note 2 - "Acquisitions"
(1)
1,788,658 treasury shares as of March 31, 2019
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
(1)
2,148,708 treasury shares as of March 31, 2020
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Business
DXC Technology Company ("DXC" or the "Company") helps global companies run their mission critical systems and operations while modernizing IT, optimizing data architectures, and ensuring security and scalability across public, private and hybrid clouds. With decades of driving innovation, the world’s largest companies trust DXC to deploy its enterprise technology stack to deliver new levels of performance, competitiveness and customer experiences.
Luxoft Acquisition
On June 14, 2019, DXC completed its acquisition of Luxoft Holding, Inc. ("Luxoft"), a global digital strategy and software engineering firm (the "Luxoft Acquisition"). The acquisition builds on DXC’s unique value proposition as an end-to-end, mainstream IT and digital services market leader, and strengthens the Company’s ability to design and deploy transformative digital solutions for clients at scale. See Note 2 - "Acquisitions" for further information.
Separation of USPS
On May 31, 2018, DXC completed the separation of its U.S. Public Sector business ("USPS") (the "Separation"), and combination of USPS with Vencore Holding Corp. ("Vencore") and KeyPoint Government Solutions ("Keypoint") (the "Mergers") to form Perspecta Inc. ("Perspecta"), an independent public company (collectively, the "USPS Separation and Mergers"). Under the terms of the separation agreements, on May 31, 2018, stockholders who held DXC common stock at the close of business on May 25, 2018 (the “Record Date”), received a distribution of one share of Perspecta common stock for every two shares of DXC common stock held as of the Record Date (the "Distribution"). See Note 3 - "Divestitures" for more information.
As a result of the Separation, the Consolidated Statements of Operations, Consolidated Balance Sheets, and related financial information reflect USPS's operations, assets and liabilities as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The cash flows of USPS have not been segregated and are included in the Consolidated Statement of Cash flows for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 and through the separation date of May 31, 2018 in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019. In addition, USPS is no longer a reportable segment. DXC's reportable segments are Global Business Services ("GBS") and Global Infrastructure Services ("GIS").
Basis of Presentation
In order to make this report easier to read, DXC refers throughout to (i) the Consolidated Financial Statements as the “financial statements,” (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Operations as the “statements of operations,” (iii) the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive (Loss) Income as the "statements of comprehensive income," (iv) the Consolidated Balance Sheets as the “balance sheets,” and (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as the “statements of cash flows.” In addition, references throughout to numbered “Notes” refer to the numbered Notes in these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted.
The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for annual reports and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"). The financial statements include the accounts of DXC, its consolidated subsidiaries, and those business entities in which DXC maintains a controlling interest. Investments in business entities in which the Company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for by the equity method. Other investments are accounted for by the cost method. Non-controlling interests are presented as a separate component within equity in the balance sheets. Net earnings attributable to the non-controlling interests are presented separately in the statements of operations, and comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests are presented separately in the statements of comprehensive income. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Certain amounts reported in the previous year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. DXC corrected an immaterial classification error related to the presentation of deferred revenue and advance contract payments and non-current deferred revenue that first occurred during fiscal 2018.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Use of Estimates
The preparation of the financial statements, in accordance with GAAP, requires the Company's management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The Company bases its estimates on assumptions regarding historical experience, currently available information and anticipated developments that it believes are reasonable and appropriate. However, because the use of estimates involves an inherent degree of uncertainty, actual results could differ from those estimates. The severity, magnitude and duration, as well as the economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, are uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict. Therefore, accounting estimates and assumptions may change over time in response to COVID-19 and may change materially in future periods. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, contracts accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method, cash flows used in the evaluation of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, reserves for uncertain tax positions, valuation allowances on deferred tax assets, loss accruals for litigation and obligations related to our pension plans. In the opinion of the Company's management, the accompanying financial statements contain all adjustments necessary, including those of a normal recurring nature, to fairly present the financial statements.
Leases
Effective April 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2016-02, "Leases, Topic ASC 842" using the modified retrospective method. Refer to the Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements section of this Note and Note 6 - "Leases" for further discussion of the impact of adoption and other required disclosures. The Company determines if an arrangement is a lease at inception by evaluating whether the arrangement conveys the right to use an identified asset and whether DXC obtains substantially all economic benefits from and has the ability to direct the use of the asset. Operating leases are included in operating right-of-use ("ROU") assets, net, current operating lease liabilities and non-current operating lease liabilities in DXC's balance sheets. Finance leases are included in property and equipment, net, short-term debt and current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt, net of current maturities in DXC's balance sheets.
ROU assets represent the Company's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent its obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating ROU assets and operating lease liabilities are recognized at commencement based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term.
As most of the Company's leases do not provide an implicit rate, DXC uses its incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement to determine the present value of lease payments. The incremental borrowing rate is the rate of interest that DXC would have to pay to borrow, on a collateralized basis, an amount equal to the lease payments, in a similar economic environment and over a similar term. The rate is dependent on several factors, including the lease term, currency of the lease payments and the Company's credit ratings.
Operating ROU assets also includes any lease payments made and excludes lease incentives. The Company's lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease. Operating ROU assets and lease liabilities include these options when it is reasonably certain that they will be exercised. Lease arrangements generally do not contain any residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants.
Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Variable lease expense is related to the Company's leased real estate for offices and primarily includes labor and operational costs. DXC subleases certain leased office space to third parties when it determines there is excess leased capacity. Sublease income was not material for all periods presented. The Company combines lease and non-lease components under its lease agreements.
Revenue Recognition
Effective April 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASU 2014-09, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606),” using the modified retrospective method. Refer to New Accounting Standards below and Note 20 - “Revenue” for further discussion of the impact of adoption and other required disclosures. The Company’s accounting policy related to the new revenue standard is summarized below.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company's primary service offerings are information technology outsourcing, other professional services, or a combination thereof. Revenues are recognized when control of the promised goods or services is transferred to DXC's customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
DXC determines revenue recognition through the five-step model as follows:
•
Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer
•
Identification of the performance obligations in the contract
•
Determination of the transaction price
•
Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract
•
Recognition of revenue when, or as, the Company satisfies a performance obligation
DXC's IT outsourcing ("ITO") arrangements typically reflect a single performance obligation that comprises a series of distinct services which are substantially the same and provided over a period of time using the same measure of progress. Revenue derived from these arrangements is recognized over time based upon the level of services delivered in the distinct periods in which they are provided based on time increments. When other parties are involved in providing goods or services as part of our customer arrangements, DXC recognizes revenue on a gross basis as a principal when it controls goods or services before they are transferred to the customer. DXC's contracts often include upfront fees billed for activities to familiarize DXC with the client's operations, take control over their administration and operation, and adapt them to DXC's solutions. Upfront fees are generally recognized ratably over the contract period, which approximates the manner in which the services are provided. These activities typically do not qualify as performance obligations, and the related revenues are allocated to the relevant performance obligations and recognized ratably over time as the performance obligation is satisfied during the period in which DXC provides the related service, which is typically the life of the contract. Software transactions that include multiple performance obligations are described below.
For contracts with multiple performance obligations, DXC allocates the contract’s transaction price to each performance obligation based on the relative standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. Other than software sales involving multiple performance obligations, the primary method used to estimate standalone selling price is the expected cost plus a margin approach, under which the Company forecasts its expected costs of satisfying a performance obligation and then adds an appropriate margin for that distinct good or service.
DXC's ITO arrangements may also contain embedded leases for equipment used to fulfill services. A contract with a customer includes an embedded lease when DXC grants the customer a right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Embedded leases with customers are typically recognized either as a sales type lease in which Revenue and Cost of Sales is recognized upon lease commencement; or they may be recognized as operating leases in which revenue is recognized over the usage period.
The transaction price of a contract is determined based on fixed and variable consideration. Variable consideration related to the Company’s ITO offerings often include volume-based pricing that are allocated to the distinct days of the services to which the variable consideration pertains. However, in certain cases, estimates of variable consideration, including penalties, contingent milestone payments and rebates are necessary. The Company only includes estimates of variable consideration in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur. These judgments involve consideration of historical and expected experience with the customer and other similar customers, and the facts and circumstances specific to the arrangement.
The Company generally provides its services under time and materials contracts, unit price contracts, fixed-price contracts, and software contracts for which revenue is recognized in the following manner:
Time and materials contracts. Revenue is recognized over time at agreed-upon billing rates when services are provided.
Unit-price contracts. Revenue is recognized over time based on unit metrics multiplied by the agreed upon contract unit price or when services are delivered.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fixed-price contracts. For certain fixed-price contracts, revenue is recognized over time using a method that measures the extent of progress towards completion of a performance obligation, generally using a cost-input method (referred to as the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost method). Under the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost method, revenue is recognized based on the proportion of total cost incurred to estimated total costs at completion. A performance obligation's estimate at completion includes all direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontractor costs, overhead, and a ratable portion of general and administrative costs. If output or input measures are not available or cannot be reasonably estimated, revenue is deferred until progress can be measured and costs are not deferred unless they meet the criteria for capitalization. Under the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost method, progress towards completion is measured based on either achievement of specified contract milestones, costs incurred as a proportion of estimated total costs, or other measures of progress when appropriate. Profit in a given period is reported at the estimated profit margin to be achieved on the overall contract.
Software contracts. Certain of DXC's arrangements involve the sale of DXC proprietary software, post contract customer support, and other software-related services. The standalone selling price generally is determined for each performance obligation using an adjusted market assessment approach based on the price charged where each deliverable is sold separately. In certain limited cases (typically for software licenses) when the historical selling price is highly variable, the residual approach is used. This approach allocates revenue to the performance obligation equal to the difference between the total transaction price and the observable standalone selling prices for the other performance obligations. Revenue from distinct software licenses is recognized at a point in time when the customer can first use the software license. If significant customization is required, software revenue is recognized as the related software customization services are performed in accordance with the percentage-of-completion method described above. Revenue for post contract customer support and other software services is recognized over time as those services are provided.
Practical Expedients and Exemptions
DXC does not adjust the promised amount of consideration for the effects of a significant financing component when the period between when DXC transfers a promised good or service to a customer and when the customer pays for that good or service will be one year or less. In addition, the Company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions, such as sales taxes and value-added taxes.
Contract Balances
The timing of revenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in accounts receivable (billed receivables, unbilled receivables and contract assets) and deferred revenue and advance contract payments (contract liabilities) on the Company's balance sheets. In arrangements that contain an element of customized software solutions, amounts are generally billed as work progresses in accordance with agreed-upon contractual terms, either at periodic intervals (e.g. monthly) or upon achievement of certain contractual milestones. Generally, billing occurs subsequent to revenue recognition, sometimes resulting in contract assets if the related billing is conditional upon more than just the passage of time. However, the Company sometimes receives advances or deposits from customers, before revenue is recognized, which results in the generation of contract liabilities. Payment terms vary by type of product or service being provided as well as by customer, although the term between invoicing and when payment is due is generally an insignificant period of time.
Costs to Obtain a Contract
Certain sales commissions earned by the Company's sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. The majority of sales commissions are paid based on the achievement of quota-based targets. These costs are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over an average period of benefit determined to be five years. The Company determined the period of benefit considering the length of its customer contracts, its technology and other factors. The period of benefit approximates the average stated contract terms, excluding expected future renewals, because sales commissions are paid upon contract renewal in a manner commensurate with the initial commissions. Some commission payments are not capitalized because they are expensed during the fiscal year as the related revenue is recognized. Capitalized sales commissions costs are classified within other assets and amortized in selling, general and administrative expenses.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Costs to Fulfill a Contract
Certain contract setup costs incurred upon initiation or renewal of an outsourcing contract that generate or enhance resources to be used in satisfying future performance obligations are capitalized when they are deemed recoverable. Judgment is applied to assess whether contract setup costs are capitalizable. Costs that generate or enhance resources often pertain to activities that enhance the capabilities of the services, improve customer experience and establish a more effective and efficient IT environment. The Company recognizes these transition and transformation contract costs as other assets, which are amortized over the respective contract life.
Pension and Other Benefit Plans
The Company accounts for its pension, other post-retirement benefit ("OPEB"), defined contribution and deferred compensation plans using the guidance of ASC 710 "Compensation - General" and ASC 715 "Compensation - Retirement Benefits". The Company recognizes actuarial gains and losses and changes in fair value of plan assets in earnings at the time of plan remeasurement as a component of net periodic benefit expense. Typically plan remeasurement occurs annually during the fourth quarter of each fiscal year. The remaining components of pension and OPEB expense, primarily current period service and interest costs and expected return on plan assets, are recorded on a quarterly basis.
Inherent in the application of the actuarial methods are key assumptions, including, but not limited to, discount rates, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets, mortality rates, rates of compensation increases, and medical cost trend rates. Company management evaluates these assumptions annually and updates assumptions as necessary. The fair value of assets is determined based on the prevailing market prices or estimated fair value of investments when quoted prices are not available.
Software Development Costs
After establishing technological feasibility, and until such time as the software products are available for general release to customers, the Company capitalizes costs incurred to develop commercial software products to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed. Costs incurred to establish technological feasibility are charged to expense as incurred. Enhancements to software products are capitalized where such enhancements extend the life or significantly expand the marketability of the products. Amortization of capitalized software development costs is determined separately for each software product. Annual amortization expense is calculated based on the greater of the ratio of current gross revenues for each product to the total of current and anticipated future gross revenues for the product or the straight-line amortization method over the estimated useful life of the product.
Unamortized capitalized software costs associated with commercial software products are periodically evaluated for impairment on a product-by-product basis by comparing the unamortized balance to the product’s net realizable value. The net realizable value is the estimated future gross revenues from that product reduced by the related estimated future costs. When the unamortized balance exceeds the net realizable value, the unamortized balance is written down to the net realizable value and an impairment charge is recorded.
The Company capitalizes costs incurred to develop internal-use computer software during the application development stage. Costs related to preliminary project activities and post-implementation activities are expensed as incurred. Internal and external costs incurred in connection with development of upgrades or enhancements that result in additional functionality are also capitalized. Capitalized costs associated with internal-use software are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the software. Purchased software is capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software. Internal-use software assets are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Share-Based Compensation
Share-based awards are accounted for under the fair value method. The Company provides different forms of share-based compensation to its employees and non-employee directors. This includes stock options and restricted stock units ("RSUs"), including performance-based restricted stock units ("PSUs"). The fair value of the awards is determined on the grant date, based on the Company's closing stock price. For awards settled in shares, the Company recognizes compensation expense based on the grant-date fair value net of estimated forfeitures over the vesting period. For awards settled in cash, the Company recognizes compensation expense based on the fair value at each reporting date net of estimated forfeitures.
The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton model to compute the estimated fair value of options granted. This model includes assumptions regarding expected term, risk-free interest rates, expected volatility and dividend yields which are periodically evaluated. The expected term is calculated based on the Company’s historical experience with respect to its stock plan activity and an estimate of when vested and unexercised option shares will be exercised. The expected term of options is based on job tier classifications, which have different historical exercise behavior. The risk-free interest rate is based on the zero-coupon interest rate of U.S. government issued treasury STRIPS with a period commensurate with the expected term of the options.
Expected volatility is based on a blended approach, which uses a two-thirds weighting for historical volatility and one-third weighting for implied volatility. The Company’s historical volatility calculation is based on employee class and historical closing prices of the Company's peer group, in order to better align this factor with the expected terms of the stock options. DXC’s implied stock price volatility is derived from the price of exchange traded options on DXC’s stock with the longest remaining contractual term. Implied volatility is a prospective, forward looking measure representing market participants’ expectations of DXC's future stock price volatility. The dividend yield assumption is based on the respective fiscal year dividend payouts. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience.
Business Combinations
Companies acquired during each reporting period are reflected in the results of the Company effective from their respective dates of acquisition through the end of the reporting period. The Company allocates the fair value of purchase consideration to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the acquisition date. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquired entity is recorded as goodwill. If the Company obtains new information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, the Company may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to the Company's statements of operations. For contingent consideration recorded as a liability, the Company initially measures the amount at fair value as of the acquisition date and adjusts the liability, if needed, to fair value each reporting period. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration, other than measurement period adjustments, are recognized as income or expense. Acquisition-related expenses and post-acquisition integration costs are recognized separately from the business combination and are expensed as incurred.
Goodwill Impairment Analysis
Effective July 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASU 2017-04, "Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment" using the prospective method. Refer to the Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements section of this Note and Note 11 - "Goodwill" for further discussion of impact of adoption and other required disclosures.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as of the first day of the second fiscal quarter, and between annual tests if circumstances change, or if an event occurs that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The Company has defined its reporting units as its reportable segments. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining whether an event indicating impairment has occurred between annual testing dates. Such indicators include: a significant decline in the Company's stock price, a significant decline in
expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, unanticipated competition, the disposal of a significant component of a reporting unit and the testing for recoverability of a significant asset group within a reporting unit.
The Company initially assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. This qualitative assessment considers all relevant factors specific to the reporting units, including macroeconomic conditions; industry and market considerations; overall financial performance and relevant entity-specific events.
If the Company determines that it is not more likely that the carrying amount for a reporting unit is less than its fair value, then subsequent quantitative goodwill impairment testing is not required. If the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the carrying amount for a reporting unit is greater than its fair value, then it proceeds with a subsequent quantitative goodwill impairment test.
The Company has the option to bypass the initial qualitative assessment stage and proceed directly to the quantitative goodwill impairment test. The quantitative goodwill impairment test compares each reporting unit’s fair value to its carrying value. If the reporting unit’s fair value exceeds its carrying value, no further procedures are required. However, if a reporting unit’s fair value is less than its carrying value, then an impairment charge is recorded in the amount of the excess.
When the Company performs the quantitative goodwill impairment test for a reporting unit, it estimates the fair value of the reporting unit using both the income approach and the market approach. The income approach uses a discounted cash flow method in which the estimated future cash flows and terminal values for each reporting unit are discounted to present value using a discount rate. Cash flow projections are based on management's estimates of economic and market conditions, which drive key assumptions of revenue growth rates, operating margins, capital expenditures and working capital requirements. The discount rate is based on the specific risk characteristics of each reporting unit, the weighted-average cost of capital and its underlying forecasts. The market approach estimates fair value by applying performance-metric multiples to the reporting unit's prior and expected operating performance. The multiples are derived from comparable publicly traded companies that have operating and investment characteristics similar to those of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit derived using one approach is significantly different from the fair value estimate using the other approach, the Company reevaluates its assumptions used in the two models. Assumptions are modified as considered appropriate under the circumstances until the two models yield similar and reasonable results. The fair values determined by the market approach and income approach, as described above, are weighted to determine the fair value for each reporting unit. The weighting ascribed to the market approach fair value assigned to each reporting unit is influenced by two primary factors: 1) the number of comparable publicly traded companies used in the market approach, and 2) the similarity of the operating and investment characteristics of the reporting units to the comparable publicly traded companies used in the market approach.
If DXC performs a quantitative goodwill impairment test for all of its reporting units in conjunction with its annual goodwill testing, it also compares the sum of all of its reporting units’ fair values to the Company's market capitalization (per-share stock price multiplied by the number of shares outstanding) and calculates an implied control premium representing the excess of the sum of the reporting units’ fair values over the market capitalization. The Company evaluates the reasonableness of the control premium by comparing it to control premiums derived from recent comparable business combinations. If the implied control premium is not supported by market data, the Company reconciles its fair value estimates of the reporting units to a market capitalization supported by relevant market data. As a result, when DXC’s stock price and thus market capitalization is low relative to the sum of the estimated fair value of its reporting units, this reconciliation can result in reductions to the estimated fair values for the reporting units.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fair Value
The Company applies fair value accounting for its financial assets and liabilities and non-financial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. The objective of a fair value measurement is to estimate the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. Such transactions to sell an asset or transfer a liability are assumed to occur in the principal market for that asset or liability, or in the absence of the principal market, the most advantageous market.
Assets and liabilities subject to fair value measurement disclosures are required to be classified according to a three-level fair value hierarchy with respect to the inputs used to determine fair value. The level in which an asset or liability is disclosed within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level input that is significant to the related fair value measurement in its entirety. The levels of input are defined as follows:
Level 1:
Quoted prices unadjusted for identical assets or liabilities in an active market.
Level 2:
Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in an active market, quoted prices for identical similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable and market-corroborated inputs which are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3:
Unobservable inputs that reflect the entity's own assumptions which market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability.
Receivables
The Company records receivables at their face amounts less an allowance for doubtful accounts. Receivables consist of amounts billed and currently due from customers, amounts earned but unbilled (including contracts measured under the percentage-of-completion cost-to-cost method of accounting), amounts retained by the customer until the completion of a specified contract, negotiation of contract modification and claims. Unbilled recoverable amounts under contracts in progress generally become billable upon achievement of project milestones or upon acceptance by the customer.
Allowances for uncollectible billed trade receivables are estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any known collectability issues. Unbilled amounts under contracts in progress that are recoverable do not have an allowance for credit losses. Adjustments to unbilled amounts under contracts in progress related to credit quality, should they occur, would be recorded as a reduction of revenues.
DXC uses receivables securitization facilities or receivables sales facilities in the normal course of business as part of managing its cash flows. The Company accounts for receivables sold under these facilities as a sale of financial assets pursuant to ASC 860 “Transfers and Servicing” and derecognizes these receivables, as well as the related allowances, from its balance sheets. Generally, the fair value of the sold receivables approximates the book value due to the short-term nature and, as a result, no gain or loss on sale of receivables is recorded. Under the receivables securitization facility, the deferred purchase price receivable is recorded at fair value, which is determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received based on unobservable inputs consisting of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses.
The Company reflects cash flows related to its beneficial interests in securitization transactions, which is the deferred purchase price (the “DPP”) recorded in connection with the Company's Receivables Securitization Facility, within investing activities in its statements of cash flows.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment, which includes assets under capital leases, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed predominantly on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets or the remaining lease term, whichever is shorter. The estimated useful lives of DXC's property and equipment are as follows:
In accordance with its policy, the Company reviews the estimated useful lives of its property and equipment on an ongoing basis. As a result, effective fiscal year 2020, the Company changed its estimate of the useful lives of its computers and related equipment from an average of four to five years to an average of four to seven years , which better reflects the estimated periods during which these assets will remain in service. This change resulted in a $225 million decrease to depreciation expense for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020.
Intangible Assets
The Company's estimated useful lives for finite-lived intangibles are shown in the table below:
Software is amortized using predominately the straight-line method. Acquired contract related and customer related intangible assets are amortized in proportion to the estimated undiscounted cash flows projected over the estimated life of the asset or on a straight-line basis if such cash flows cannot be reliably estimated.
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Finite-Lived Intangible Assets
Long-lived assets such as property and equipment and finite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of long-lived assets or groups of assets is assessed based on a comparison of the carrying amount of such assets to the estimated future net cash flows. If estimated future net cash flows are less than the carrying amount of such assets, an expense is recorded in the amount required to reduce the carrying amount of such assets to fair value. Fair value is determined based on a discounted cash flow approach or, when available and appropriate, comparable market values. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or their fair value less costs to sell.
Income Taxes
The Company uses the liability method in accounting for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, using statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect of a change in tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognized in the results of operations in the period that includes the related enactment date.
A valuation allowance is established when it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Changes in valuation allowances from period to period are included in the Company’s tax provision during the period in which the change occurred. In determining whether a valuation allowance is warranted, the Company considers all available positive and negative evidence, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, taxable income in prior carryback years, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operations. The Company recognizes uncertain tax positions when it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination. Uncertain tax positions are measured based on the probabilities that the uncertain tax position will be realized upon final settlement.
All tax-related cash flows resulting from excess tax benefits related to the settlement of share-based awards are classified as cash flows from operating activities and cash paid by directly withholding shares for tax withholding purposes is classified as a financing activity in the statements of cash flows.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company’s cash equivalents consist of time deposits, money market funds and money market deposit accounts with a number of institutions that have high credit ratings.
Foreign Currency
The local currency of the Company's foreign affiliates is generally their functional currency. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the foreign affiliates are translated from their respective functional currency to U.S. dollars using fiscal year-end exchange rates, income and expense accounts are translated at the average rates in effect during the fiscal year and equity accounts are translated at historical rates. The resulting translation adjustment is reported in the statements of comprehensive income and recorded as part of accumulated other comprehensive income ("AOCI").
Derivative Instruments
The Company designates certain derivative instruments as hedges for purposes of hedge accounting, as defined under ASC 815 “Derivatives and Hedging.” For such derivative instruments, the Company documents its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking hedging transactions, as well as all relationships between hedging and hedged risks. The Company's derivative instruments designated for hedge accounting include interest rate swaps and foreign currency forward and option contracts. Changes in the fair value measurements of these derivative instruments are reflected as adjustments to other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period during which the hedged transactions occurred. Any ineffectiveness or excluded portion of a designated hedge is recognized in earnings.
The Company also has entered into certain net investment hedges. Changes in the fair value of net investment hedges are recorded in the currency translation adjustment section of other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period the hedged item affects earnings. The Company excludes forward points from the effectiveness assessment of its net investment hedges. Changes in fair value of the excluded component are recognized in earnings.
The derivative instruments not designated as hedges for purposes of hedge accounting include total return swaps and certain short-term foreign currency forward contracts. These instruments are recorded at their respective fair values and the change in their value is reported in current period earnings. The Company does not use derivative instruments for trading or speculative purpose. The Company reports the effective portion of its cash flow hedges in the same financial statement line item as changes in the fair value of the hedged item. All cash flows associated with the Company's derivative instruments are classified as operating activities in the statements of cash flows.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements
During fiscal 2020, DXC adopted the following Accounting Standards Updates ("ASU") issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
New Accounting Pronouncements:
The following ASUs were recently issued but have not yet been adopted by DXC:
Other recently issued ASUs effective after March 31, 2020 are not expected to have a material effect on DXC's consolidated financial statements.
Note 2 - Acquisitions
Fiscal 2020 Acquisitions
Luxoft Acquisition
On June 14, 2019, DXC completed the acquisition of Luxoft, a digital service provider whose offerings encompass strategic consulting, custom software development services, and digital solution engineering for total consideration of $2.0 billion. The acquisition will combine Luxoft’s digital engineering capabilities with DXC’s expertise in IT modernization and integration. The purchase agreement (“Merger Agreement”) was entered into by DXC and Luxoft on January 6, 2019 and the transaction was closed on June 14, 2019.
The transaction between DXC and Luxoft is an acquisition, with DXC as the acquirer and Luxoft as the acquiree, based on the fact that DXC acquired 100% of the equity interests and voting rights in Luxoft, and that DXC is the entity that transferred the cash consideration.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The purchase price allocation was finalized during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. The Company's allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the Luxoft acquisition date is as follows:
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date. The goodwill recognized with the acquisition was attributable to the synergies expected to be achieved by combining the businesses of DXC and Luxoft, expected future contracts and the acquired workforce. The cost-saving opportunities are expected to include improved operating efficiencies and asset optimization. The total goodwill arising from the acquisition was allocated to GBS and is not deductible for tax purposes. See Note 11 - "Goodwill."
As of the period March 31, 2020, the Company made a number of refinements to the June 14, 2019 purchase price allocation. These refinements were primarily driven by the Company recording valuation adjustments that increased customer related intangibles by $6 million and historical deferred tax adjustments including $22 million uncertain tax positions which resulted in a decrease in net identifiable assets of $17 million.
Current assets and liabilities
The Company valued current assets and liabilities using existing carrying values as an estimate of the approximate fair value of those items at the acquisition date except for certain contract receivables for which the Company determined fair value based on a cost plus margin approach.
Property and equipment
The acquired property and equipment are summarized in the following table:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The company valued acquired property and equipment using the direct capitalization method of the income approach and the cost approach. For all other categories of property and equipment, based on the nature of the assets, the Company determined that the net book value represents the fair value.
Identified intangible assets
The acquired identifiable intangible assets are summarized in the following table:
Developed technology and third-party purchased software are included in the software category and trade names are included in the other intangible assets category in Note 10 -"Intangible Assets".
The Company valued customer relationships using the multi-period excess earnings method under the income approach and valued trade names and developed technology using a relief from royalty method under the income approach. The Company determined that the net book value of the purchased software represents the fair value.
Deferred tax liabilities
The Company valued deferred tax liabilities based on statutory tax rates in the jurisdictions of the legal entities where the acquired non-current assets and liabilities are taxed.
Results of Operations
The Company's statement of operations includes the following revenues and net income
attributable to Luxoft since the acquisition date:
(1) Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 reflect operations subsequent to the acquisition date of June 14, 2019, not the full twelve months of fiscal 2020.
Fiscal 2019 Acquisitions
Molina Medicaid Solutions Acquisition
On October 1, 2018, DXC completed its acquisition of Molina Medicaid Solutions ("MMS"), a Medicaid Management Information Systems business, from Molina Healthcare, Inc. for the total consideration of $233 million. The combination of MMS with DXC expands DXC’s ability to provide services to state agencies in the administration of Medicaid programs, including business processing, information technology development and administrative services.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The purchase price for the MMS was allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon the current determination of fair values at the date of acquisition as follows: $87 million to current assets, $112 million to intangible assets other than goodwill, $11 million to other assets, $51 million to current liabilities, $18 million to other liabilities and $92 million to goodwill. The goodwill is associated with the Company's GBS segment and is tax deductible. The intangible assets acquired include customer relationships and developed technology which have a 13-year weighted average estimated useful life.
Other Acquisitions
In addition to the MMS acquisition, DXC completed seven acquisitions to complement the Company's Microsoft Dynamics and ServiceNow offerings and to provide opportunities for future growth. The acquired businesses are included in the results for the GBS segment. The purchase consideration of $228 million included cash of $187 million and contingent consideration with an estimated fair value of $41 million. The purchase price was allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon determination of fair values at the dates of acquisition as follows: $73 million to current assets, $71 million to intangible assets other than goodwill, $10 million to other non-current assets, $63 million to current liabilities and $137 million to goodwill. The goodwill is associated with the Company's GBS segment some of which is tax deductible.
Fiscal 2018 Acquisitions
HPES Merger
On April 1, 2017, CSC, Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company (“HPE”), Everett SpinCo, Inc. (“Everett”), and New Everett Merger Sub Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Everett (“Merger Sub”), completed the strategic combination of CSC with the Enterprise Services business of HPE to form DXC. The combination was accomplished through a series of transactions that included the transfer by HPE of its Enterprise Services business, HPES, to Everett, and spin-off by HPE of Everett on March 31, 2017, and the merger of Merger Sub with and into CSC on April 1, 2017. At the time of the HPES Merger, Everett was renamed DXC, and as a result of the HPES Merger, CSC became a direct wholly owned subsidiary of DXC. DXC common stock began regular-way trading on the New York Stock Exchange on April 3, 2017. The strategic combination of the two complementary businesses was to create a versatile global technology services business, well positioned to innovate, compete and serve clients in a rapidly changing marketplace.
The transaction involving HPES and CSC is a reverse merger acquisition, in which DXC is considered the legal acquirer of the business and CSC is considered the accounting acquirer. While purchase consideration transferred in a business combination is typically measured by reference to the fair value of equity issued or other assets transferred by the accounting acquirer, CSC did not issue any consideration in the HPES Merger. CSC stockholders received one share of DXC common stock for every one share of CSC common stock held immediately prior to the HPES Merger. DXC issued a total of 141,298,797 shares of DXC common stock to CSC stockholders, representing approximately 49.9% of the outstanding shares of DXC common stock immediately following the HPES Merger.
The reverse merger is deemed a capital transaction and the net assets of CSC (the accounting acquirer) are carried forward to DXC (the legal acquirer and the reporting entity) at their carrying value before the combination. The acquisition process utilizes the capital structure of the Company and the assets and liabilities of CSC, which are recorded at historical cost. The equity of the Company is the historical equity of CSC, retroactively restated to reflect the number of shares issued by DXC in the transaction.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Under the acquisition method of accounting, total consideration exchanged was:
(1)
Represents the fair value of consideration received by HPE stockholders to give them 50.1% ownership in the combined company. The fair value of the purchase consideration transferred was based on a total of 141,865,656 shares of DXC common stock distributed to HPE stockholders as of the close of business on the record date (141,741,712 after the effect of 123,944 cancelled shares) at CSC's closing price of $69.01 per share on March 31, 2017.
(2)
Represents the fair value of certain stock-based awards of HPES employees that were unexercised on March 31, 2017, which were converted to DXC stock-based awards.
The purchase price allocation for the HPES Merger was finalized during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. The Company's allocation of the purchase price to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the HPES Merger date is as follows:
(1)
Includes aggregate adjustments of $203 million received from HPE in accordance with the provisions of the Separation Agreement.
(2)
Previously reported amounts were adjusted to reflect the reclassification of transition and transformation contract costs from intangible assets to other assets to conform to the current year presentation.
Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the HPES Merger date. The goodwill recognized with the HPES Merger was attributable to the synergies expected to be achieved by combining the businesses of CSC and HPES, expected future contracts and the acquired workforce. The goodwill arising from the HPES Merger was allocated to the Company's reportable segments as $2.8 billion to the GBS segment, $2.6 billion to the GIS segment and $2.0 billion to the USPS segment. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. See Note 11 - "Goodwill."
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company valued current assets and liabilities, with the exception of the current portion of deferred revenue and capital leases, using existing carrying values as the fair value of those items as of the HPES Merger date. The Company valued acquired property and equipment using predominately the market method, and in certain specific cases, the cost method. The Company valued deferred tax assets and liabilities based on statutory tax rates in the jurisdictions of the legal entities where the acquired non-current assets and liabilities are taxed. The Company valued intangible assets predominately using the multi-period excess earnings method. Intangible assets include customer relationships which have useful lives of 10-13 years and third-party purchased software which have useful lives of 2-7 years.
Subsequent to the HPES Merger, the Company divested USPS which was acquired in the HPES Merger. See Note 3 - "Divestitures" for additional information about the divestiture of USPS.
Tribridge Acquisition
On July 1, 2017, DXC acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Tribridge Holdings LLC, an independent integrator of Microsoft Dynamics 365, for total consideration of $152 million. The acquisition includes the Tribridge affiliate company, Concerto Cloud Services LLC. The combination of Tribridge with DXC expands DXC’s Microsoft Dynamics 365 global systems integration business.
The purchase price is allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon determination of fair values at the date of acquisition as follows: $32 million to current assets, $4 million to property and equipment, $62 million to intangible assets other than goodwill, $24 million to current liabilities and $78 million to goodwill. The goodwill is primarily associated with the Company's GBS segment and is tax deductible. The intangible assets acquired include customer relationships which have a 12-year estimated useful life.
Note 3 - Divestitures
Fiscal 2019 Separation of USPS
During fiscal 2019, the Company completed the USPS Separation and Mergers to form Perspecta, an independent public company.
Implementation of the Separation and DXC's post-Separation relationship with Perspecta is governed by several agreements, including the following:
•a Separation and Distribution Agreement;
•an Employee Matters Agreement;
•a Tax Matters Agreement;
•an Intellectual Property Matters Agreement;
•a Transition Services Agreement;
•a Real Estate Matters Agreement;
•an IT Services Agreement and,
•a Non-US Agency Agreement.
These agreements provide for the allocation of assets, employees, liabilities and obligations (including property, employee benefits, litigation, and tax-related assets and liabilities) between DXC and Perspecta attributable to periods prior to, at and after the Separation. In addition, DXC and Perspecta have service and commercial contracts that generally extend through fiscal 2023. Results for the twelve months ended March 31, 2020 include $39 million of revenue and income from continuing operations before taxes associated with the IT services agreement.
Pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, immediately prior to the Separation, Perspecta made a net cash payment of $984 million to DXC, which reflects transaction consideration of $1,050 million less $66 million in principal amount of debt that was outstanding at a subsidiary of Perspecta. Perspecta financed the payment through borrowings under a new senior secured term loan facility.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
DXC's Chief Financial Officer, Paul N. Saleh, served as a Director of Perspecta until his term ended on August 13, 2019. Due to Mr. Saleh's leadership position at DXC and former leadership position at Perspecta, Perspecta is considered a related party under ASC 850 "Related Party Disclosures" for fiscal 2020. Transactions with Perspecta were immaterial to the Company's financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020 and balances due to and from Perspecta were immaterial to the Company's balance sheet as of March 31, 2020.
The following is a summary of the assets and liabilities distributed as part of the Separation of USPS on May 31, 2018:
(1)
Previously reported amounts were adjusted to reflect the reclassification of transition and transformation contract costs from intangible assets to other assets to conform to the current year presentation.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following is a summary of the operating results of USPS which have been reflected within income from discontinued operations, net of tax:
(1) Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 reflect operations through the Separation date of May 31, 2018, not the full twelve-month period as shown for the prior period.
There was no gain or loss on disposition recognized as a result of the Separation.
The following selected financial information of USPS is included in the statements of cash flows:
(1) Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 reflect operations through the Separation date of May 31, 2018, not the full twelve-month period as shown for the prior period.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 4 - Earnings (Loss) Per Share
Basic EPS are computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS reflect the incremental shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of stock options and equity awards. The following table reflects the calculation of basic and diluted EPS:
Certain share based equity awards were excluded from the computation of dilutive EPS because inclusion of these awards would have had an anti-dilutive effect. The following table reflects awards excluded:
(1) Due to the Company's net loss during fiscal 2020, stock options, RSUs and PSUs were excluded from the computation of dilutive EPS because they would have had an anti-dilutive effect.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 5 - Receivables
Receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts consist of the following:
The following table summarizes activity for the allowance for doubtful accounts:
(1)
Represents write-offs and recoveries of prior year charges.
(2)
Includes changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
Receivables Facility
The Company has an accounts receivable sales facility (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified as of March 31, 2020, the "Receivables Facility") with certain unaffiliated financial institutions (the "Purchasers") for the sale of commercial accounts receivable in the United States. Under the Receivables Facility, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries (the "Sellers") sell accounts receivable to DXC Receivables LLC ("Receivables SPV"), a wholly-owned bankruptcy-remote entity, in a true sale. Receivables SPV subsequently sells certain of the receivables in their entirety to the Purchasers pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement. The financial obligations of Receivables SPV to the Purchasers under the Receivables Facility are limited to the assets it owns and non-recourse to the Company. Sales of receivables by Receivables SPV occur continuously and are settled on a monthly basis. During the second quarter of fiscal 2020, Receivables SPV amended the Receivables Facility (the "Amendment") to increase the investment limit from $600 million to $750 million and extend the termination date to August 19, 2020. Under the terms of the amended Receivables Facility, there are no longer deferred purchase prices ("DPP") for receivables as the entire purchase price is paid in cash when the receivables are sold to the Purchasers. Prior to the Amendment, DPP's were realized by Receivables SPV upon the ultimate collection of the underlying receivables sold to the Purchasers. Cash receipts on the DPP were classified as cash flows from investing activities. The DPP was $525 million before the Amendment was executed. Upon execution of the Amendment, the Purchasers extinguished the DPP and returned title to the applicable underlying receivables titles to Receivables SPV. The DPP extinguishment was classified as a non-cash investing activity, please refer to Note 17 - "Cash Flows."
The amount available under the Receivables Facility fluctuates over time based on the total amount of eligible receivables generated during the normal course of business after deducting excess concentrations. As of March 31, 2020, the total availability under the Receivables Facility was $750 million and the amount sold to the Purchasers was $750 million, which was derecognized from the Company's balance sheet. The Receivables Facility is scheduled to terminate on August 19, 2020, but provides for one or more optional one-year extensions, if agreed to by the Purchasers. The Company uses the proceeds from Receivables SPV's sale of receivables under the Receivables Facility for general corporate purposes.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The fair value of the sold receivables approximated book value due to the short-term nature, and as a result, no gain or loss on sale of receivables was recorded.
While the Company guarantees certain non-financial performance obligations of the Sellers, the Purchasers bear customer credit risk associated with the receivables sold under the Receivables Facility and have recourse in the event of credit-related customer non-payment solely to the assets of the Receivables SPV.
The following table is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the DPP:
German Receivables Facility
On October 1, 2019, DXC executed an accounts receivable securitization facility (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified as of March 31, 2020, the "DE Receivables Facility") with certain unaffiliated financial institutions (the "DE Purchasers") for the sale of commercial accounts receivable in Germany. The facility has an investment limit of €200 million (approximately $225 million as of March 31, 2020). Under the DE Receivables Facility, certain DXC subsidiaries located in Germany (the "DE Sellers") sell billed and unbilled accounts receivable to DXC ARFacility Designated Activity Company ("DE Receivables"), a trust owned bankruptcy-remote entity, in a true sale. Pursuant to a receivables purchase agreement, DE Receivables subsequently sells the receivables to the DE Purchasers in return for payments of capital. Sales of receivables by DE Receivables SPV occur continuously and are settled on a monthly basis. The proceeds from the sale of these receivables comprise a combination of cash and DPP. The DPP is realized by the Company upon the ultimate collection of the underlying receivables sold to the DE Purchasers. Cash receipts on the DPP are classified as cash flows from investing activities.
The amount available under the DE Receivables Facility fluctuates over time based on the total amount of eligible receivables generated during the normal course of business after deducting excess concentrations. As of March 31, 2020, the total availability under the DE Receivables Facility was approximately $116 million and the drawn amount was $105 million. As of March 31, 2020, the Company recorded a $11 million receivable within receivables, net because the amount of cash proceeds received by the Company under the DE Receivables Facility was less than the total availability. The DE Receivables Facility is scheduled to terminate on September 30, 2020, but provides for one or more optional one-year extensions, if agreed to by the DE Purchasers. The Company uses the proceeds from DE Receivables SPV's sale of receivables under the DE Receivables Facility for general corporate purposes.
The fair value of the sold receivables approximated book value due to the short-term nature, and as a result, no gain or loss on sale of receivables was recorded.
The Company’s risk of loss following the transfer of accounts receivable under the DE Receivables Facility is limited to the DPP outstanding and any short-falls in collections for specified non-credit related reasons after sale. Payment of the DPP is not subject to significant risks other than delinquencies and credit losses on accounts receivable sold under the DE Receivables Facility.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Certain obligations of DE Sellers under the DE Receivables Facility and certain DXC subsidiaries located in Germany, as initial servicers, are guaranteed by the Company under a performance guaranty, made in favor of an administrative agent on behalf of the DE Purchasers. However, the performance guaranty does not cover DE Receivables SPV’s obligations to pay yield, fees or invested amounts to the administrative agent or any of the DE Purchasers.
The following table is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the DPP:
Federal Receivables Sales Facility
Since July 14, 2017, the Company has given a parent guaranty in connection with a federal receivables sales facility with certain financial institutions, under which certain subsidiaries of the Company previously sold eligible federal government obligor receivables, including billed and certain unbilled receivables. In connection with the Separation, the sellers and servicers of the receivables sold under the Federal Receivables Sales Facility were divested and, effective May 31, 2018, the parent guaranty was terminated.
The following table reflects activity of the Federal Receivables Sales Facility, prior to the Separation:
(1) Results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 reflect operations through the Separation date of May 31, 2018, not the full twelve month period.
Note 6 - Leases
The Company has operating and finance leases for data centers, corporate offices, retail stores and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining lease terms of 1 to 13 years, some of which include options to extend the leases for up to 10 years, and some of which include options to terminate the leases within 1 to 3 years.
The components of lease expense were as follows:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Cash payments made from variable lease costs and short-term leases are not included in the measurement of operating and finance lease liabilities, and as such, are excluded from the supplemental cash flow information stated below. In addition, for the supplemental non-cash information on operating and finance leases, please refer to Note 17 - "Cash Flows."
Supplemental Balance Sheet information related to leases was as follows:
The following table provides information on the weighted average remaining lease term and weighted average discount rate for operating and finance leases:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following maturity analysis presents expected undiscounted cash payments for operating and finance leases on an annual basis as of March 31, 2020:
Prior to fiscal 2020, required disclosure under ASC 840 for minimum fixed rentals under operating leases that have initial or remaining terms in excess of one year at March 31, 2019, was as follows:
Prior to fiscal 2020, required disclosure under ASC 840 for future minimum lease payments to be made under finance leases as of March 31, 2019, was as follows:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 7 - Fair Value
Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis
The following table presents the Company’s assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding pension assets and derivative assets and liabilities. See Note 14 - "Pension and Other Benefit Plans" and Note 8 - "Derivative Instruments" for information about the fair value of our pension assets and derivative assets and liabilities, respectively. There were no transfers between any of the levels during the periods presented.
(1) Cost basis approximated fair value due to the short period of time to maturity.
(2) Other debt securities include available-for-sale investments with Level 2 inputs that have a cost basis of $37 million and $38 million, and unrealized gains of $11 million and $11 million, as of March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively.
The fair value of money market funds and money market deposit accounts, and time deposits, included in cash and cash equivalents, are based on quoted market prices. The fair value of other debt securities, included in other long-term assets, is based on actual market prices. The fair value of the DPP, included in receivables, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, is determined by calculating the expected amount of cash to be received and is principally based on unobservable inputs consisting primarily of the face amount of the receivables adjusted for anticipated credit losses. The fair value of contingent consideration, included in other liabilities, is based on contractually defined targets of financial performance and other considerations.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Other Fair Value Disclosures
The carrying amounts of the Company’s financial instruments with short-term maturities, primarily accounts receivable, accounts payable, short-term debt, and financial liabilities included in other accrued liabilities, are deemed to approximate their market values due to their short-term nature. If measured at fair value, these financial instruments would be classified in Level 2 or Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.
The Company estimates the fair value of its long-term debt, primarily by using quoted prices obtained from third party providers such as Bloomberg, and by using an expected present value technique that is based on observable market inputs for instruments with similar terms currently available to the Company. The estimated fair value of the Company's long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease liabilities, was $8.2 billion and $5.6 billion as of March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively, as compared with carrying value of $8.4 billion and $5.6 billion as of March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively. If measured at fair value, long-term debt, excluding capitalized lease liabilities would be classified in Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.
Non-financial assets such as goodwill, tangible assets, intangible assets and other contract related long-lived assets are recorded at fair value in the period they are initially recognized, and such fair value may be adjusted in subsequent periods if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate that the asset may be impaired. The fair value measurements, in such instances, would be classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Other than the goodwill impairment losses discussed in Note 11 - "Goodwill," there were no significant impairments recorded during the fiscal periods covered by this report.
Note 8 - Derivative Instruments
In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuations. As part of its risk management strategy, the Company uses derivative instruments, primarily foreign currency forward contracts and interest rate swaps, to hedge certain foreign currency and interest rate exposures. The Company’s objective is to reduce earnings volatility by offsetting gains and losses resulting from these exposures with losses and gains on the derivative contracts used to hedge them. The Company does not use derivative instruments for trading or any speculative purpose.
Derivatives Designated for Hedge Accounting
Cash flow hedges
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company has designated certain foreign currency forward contracts as cash flow hedges to reduce foreign currency risk related to certain Indian Rupee, Euro and British Pound-denominated intercompany obligations and forecasted transactions. The notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges as of March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019 was $455 million and $277 million, respectively. As of March 31, 2020, the related forecasted transactions extend through September 2021.
For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, the Company performed an assessment at the inception of the cash flow hedge transactions and determined all critical terms of the hedging instruments and hedged items matched. The Company performs an assessment of critical terms on an on-going basis throughout the hedging period. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, the Company had no cash flow hedges for which it was probable that the hedged transaction would not occur. As of March 31, 2020, $17 million of the existing gain related to the cash flow hedge reported in AOCI is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next 12 months.
Net investment hedges
The Company has designated certain foreign currency forward contracts as net investment hedges to protect its investment in certain foreign operations against adverse changes in exchange rates between the EUR and USD. These contracts were de-designated and settled during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, and as of March 31, 2020, there were none outstanding. As of March 31, 2019, the notional amount of foreign currency forward contracts designated as net investment hedges was $1.7 billion.
The pre-tax gain (loss) on derivatives designated for hedge accounting recognized in other comprehensive loss was $(18) million and in loss from continuing operations was $2 million during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020.
Derivatives Not Designated For Hedge Accounting
The derivative instruments not designated as hedges for purposes of hedge accounting include certain short-term foreign currency forward contracts. Derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are adjusted to fair value through earnings in the financial statement line item to which the derivative relates.
Foreign currency forward contracts
The Company manages the exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies by using foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, including intercompany accounts and forecasted transactions. The notional amount of the foreign currency forward contracts outstanding as of March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019 was $2.2 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively.
The following table presents the pretax amounts impacting income related to designated and non-designated foreign currency forward contracts:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fair Value of Derivative Instruments
All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value. The Company’s accounting treatment for these derivative instruments is based on its hedge designation. The following tables present the fair values of derivative instruments included in the balance sheets:
(1)
Foreign currency forward contracts designated for hedge accounting includes designated cash flow hedges and net investment hedges.
The fair value of foreign currency forward contracts represents the estimated amount required to settle the contracts using current market exchange rates and is based on the period-end foreign currency exchange rates and forward points which are classified as Level 2 inputs.
Other Risks for Derivative Instruments
The Company is exposed to the risk of losses in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to its derivative contracts. The amount subject to credit risk related to derivative instruments is generally limited to the amount, if any, by which a counterparty's obligations exceed the obligations of the Company with that counterparty. To mitigate counterparty credit risk, the Company regularly reviews its credit exposure and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. With respect to its foreign currency derivatives, as of March 31, 2020, there were no counterparties with concentration of credit risk.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company also enters into enforceable master netting arrangements with some of its counterparties. However, for financial reporting purposes, it is the Company's policy not to offset derivative assets and liabilities despite the existence of enforceable master netting arrangements. The potential effect of such netting arrangements on the Company's balance sheets is not material for the periods presented.
Non-Derivative Financial Instruments Designated for Hedge Accounting
The Company applies hedge accounting for foreign currency-denominated debt used to manage foreign currency exposures on its net investments in certain non-U.S. operations. To qualify for hedge accounting, the hedging instrument must be highly effective at reducing the risk from the exposure being hedged.
Net Investment Hedges
DXC seeks to reduce the impact of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates on its net investments in certain non-U.S. operations with foreign currency-denominated debt. For foreign currency denominated debt designated as a hedge, the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed based on changes in spot rates. For qualifying net investment hedges, all gains or losses on the hedging instruments are included in currency translation. Gains or losses on individual net investments in non-U.S. operations are reclassified to earnings from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income when such net investments are sold or substantially liquidated.
As of March 31, 2020, DXC had $1.9 billion of foreign currency-denominated debt designated as hedges of net investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, the pre-tax impact of gain (loss) on foreign currency-denominated debt designated for hedge accounting recognized in other comprehensive (loss) income was $53 million. As of March 31, 2019, DXC did not have any foreign currency-denominated debt designated as hedges of net investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries.
Note 9 - Property and Equipment
Property and equipment consisted of the following:
Depreciation expense for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $643 million, $820 million and $709 million, respectively.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 10 - Intangible Assets
Intangible assets consisted of the following:
The components of amortization expense were as follows:
(1)
Transition and transformation contract costs are included within other assets on the balance sheet.
Estimated future amortization as of March 31, 2020 is as follows:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 11 - Goodwill
The following tables summarize the changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill, by segment, for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively:
As a result of the USPS Separation on May 31, 2018, as more fully described in Note 3 - "Divestitures", USPS is no longer a reportable segment. The fiscal 2020 and 2019 additions to goodwill were due to the acquisitions described in Note 2 - "Acquisitions", including goodwill of some insignificant acquisitions. The foreign currency translation amount reflects the impact of currency movements on non-U.S. dollar-denominated goodwill balances.
Goodwill Impairment Analyses
Fiscal 2020
The Company performed its annual goodwill impairment assessment as of July 1, 2019. Subsequent to the measurement date, the Company experienced a decline in its stock price and market capitalization that represented an indicator of impairment as the observed declines were substantial and sustained. As a result, the Company performed quantitative goodwill impairment tests during the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2020. Both quantitative goodwill impairment tests were performed for all of DXC's reporting units, consistent with its policy described in Note 1 - "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.” As part of the reconciliation to the Company’s market capitalization, the Company concluded on both instances that the carrying values of its reporting units exceeded their estimated fair values and recognized total non-cash impairment charges of $6,794 million, consisting of $3,789 million and $3,005 million in its GBS and GIS segments, respectively. The goodwill impairment charges do not have an impact on the calculation of the Company's financial covenants under the Company's debt arrangements.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fiscal 2019
The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed as of July 1, 2018, did not result in an impairment charge. At the end of fiscal 2019, the Company assessed whether there were events or changes in circumstances that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of any of its reporting units below its carrying amount and require goodwill to be tested for impairment. The Company determined that there have been no such indicators and therefore, it was unnecessary to perform an interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2019.
Fiscal 2018
The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis, which was performed qualitatively as of July 1, 2017, did not result in an impairment charge. At the end of the fiscal 2018, the Company assessed whether there were events or changes in circumstances that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of any of its reporting units below its carrying amount and require goodwill to be tested for impairment. The Company determined that there have been no such indicators, and, therefore, it was unnecessary to perform an interim goodwill impairment test as of March 31, 2018.
Note 12 - Income Taxes
The sources of income (loss) from continuing operations, before income taxes, classified between domestic entities and those entities domiciled outside of the United States, are as follows:
The income tax expense (benefit) on income (loss) from continuing operations is comprised of:
The current federal (benefit) and tax expense for fiscal years 2020, 2019 and 2018 includes a $(31) million transition tax benefit, $(44) million transition tax benefit and $332 million transition tax expense, respectively. The current expense (benefit) for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, includes interest and penalties of $2 million, $1 million and $2 million, respectively, for uncertain tax positions.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In connection with the HPES Merger, the Company entered into a tax matters agreement with HPE. HPE generally will be responsible for pre-HPES Merger tax liabilities including adjustments made by tax authorities to HPES U.S. and non-U.S. income tax returns. Likewise, DXC is liable to HPE for income tax receivables and refunds which it receives related to pre-HPES Merger periods. Pursuant to the tax matters agreement, the Company recorded a net receivable of $8 million due to $44 million of tax indemnification receivable related to uncertain tax positions net of related deferred tax benefits, $87 million of tax indemnification receivable related to other tax payables and $123 million of tax indemnification payable related to other tax receivables.
In connection with the USPS Separation, the Company entered into a tax matters agreement with Perspecta. Pursuant to the tax matters agreement, the Company generally will be responsible for tax liabilities arising prior to the USPS Separation. Income tax liabilities transferred to Perspecta primarily relate to pre-HPES Merger periods, for which the Company is indemnified by HPE pursuant to the tax matters agreement between the Company and HPE. The Company remains liable to HPE for tax receivables and refunds which it receives from Perspecta related to pre-HPES Merger periods that were transferred to Perspecta. Pursuant to the tax matters agreement, the Company has recorded a tax indemnification receivable from Perspecta of $72 million and a tax indemnification payable to Perspecta of $45 million related to income tax and other tax liabilities.
The major elements contributing to the difference between the U.S. federal statutory tax rate and the effective tax rate ("ETR") for continuing operations is below. Due to the Company's fiscal year, the U.S. federal weighted statutory tax rate for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2020, March 31, 2019, and March 31, 2018 were of 21.0%, 21.0% and 31.5%, respectively.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In fiscal 2020, the ETR was primarily impacted by:
•
Non-deductible goodwill impairment charge, which increased tax expense and increased the ETR by $1,482 million and 28.3%, respectively.
•
Non-taxable gain on the arbitration award, which decreased income tax expense and decreased the ETR by $186 million and 3.6%, respectively.
•
A change in the net valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets, primarily in Australia, Brazil, China, Luxembourg, and Singapore, which increased income tax expense and increased the ETR by $631 million and 12.1%, respectively.
•
An increase in Income Tax and Foreign Tax Credits, primarily relating to research and development credits recognized for prior years, which decreased income tax expense and decreased the ETR by $135 million and 2.6%, respectively.
•
Local losses on investments in Luxembourg that increased the foreign rate differential and decreased the ETR by $637 million and 12.2%, respectively, with an offsetting increase in the ETR due to an increase in the valuation allowance of the same amount.
In fiscal 2019, the ETR was primarily impacted by:
•
Local tax losses on investments in Luxembourg that decreased the foreign tax rate differential and decreased the ETR by $360 million and 23.7%, respectively, with an offsetting increase in the ETR due to an increase in the valuation allowance of the same amount.
•
A change in the net valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets, primarily in Luxembourg, Germany, Spain, UK, and Switzerland, which increased income tax expense and increased the ETR by $256 million and 16.9%, respectively.
•
A decrease in the transition tax liability and a change in tax accounting method for deferred revenue, which decreased income tax expense and decreased the ETR by $66 million and 4.3%, respectively.
In fiscal 2018, the ETR was primarily impacted by:
•
Due to the Company's change in repatriation policy, the reversal of a deferred tax liability relating to the outside basis difference of foreign subsidiaries which increased the income tax benefit and decreased the ETR by $554 million and 42.5%, respectively.
•
The accrual of the one-time transition tax imposed by the Act on estimated unremitted foreign earnings, which decreased the income tax benefit and increased the ETR by $361 million and 27.7%, respectively.
•
The remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the Act, which increased the income tax benefit and decreased the ETR by $338 million and 25.9%, respectively.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The deferred tax assets (liabilities) were as follows:
Income tax related assets are included in the accompanying balance sheets as follows:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Income tax related liabilities are included in the accompanying balance sheet as follows:
Significant management judgment is required in determining the Company's provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. As of each reporting date, management weighs new evidence, both positive and negative, that could affect its view of the future realization of its net deferred tax assets. Objective verifiable evidence, which is historical in nature, carries more weight than subjective evidence, which is forward looking in nature.
A valuation allowance has been recorded against deferred tax assets of approximately $2.2 billion as of March 31, 2020 due to uncertainties related to the ability to utilize these assets. In assessing whether its deferred tax assets are realizable, the Company considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized and adjusts the valuation allowance accordingly. The Company considers all available positive and negative evidence including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, taxable income in prior carryback years, projected future taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operations.
As of March 31, 2018, the Company's net deferred tax assets in Singapore were primarily the result of $80 million indefinitely lived net operating loss carryforwards. A partial valuation allowance was recorded against the net operating losses as of the reporting date based upon the negative evidence of a three-year cumulative loss, uncertainty of predicting loss of contracts and an estimated forty-year net operating loss utilization period. For the period ended March 31, 2020, management has determined that the positive evidence of a three-year cumulative profit, ten consecutive quarters of profitability, and expansion of customer contract base outweighs the negative evidence of an estimated seventeen-year net operating loss utilization period. Therefore, as of March 31, 2020 management has had a change in judgment that it is now more likely than not that the net operating loss carryforwards in Singapore will be fully utilized. As a result, we recorded a valuation allowance release of $47.7 million to the income statement as deferred tax benefit in the current period.
The net increase in the valuation allowance of $587 million in fiscal 2020, is primarily due to the local losses in Luxembourg for the write-down on foreign investment carrying value of $637 million, valuation allowance releases of $(6) million, and an adjustment for currency translation of $(44) million.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following table provides information on the Company's various tax carryforwards:
The Company was a beneficiary of tax holiday incentives in India in fiscal 2019 and 2018 and was a beneficiary of Malaysian tax holiday incentives in fiscal 2018. As a result of these tax holiday incentives, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of approximately, $0 million, $2 million and $5 million, during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The per share effects were $0.0, $0.01 and $0.02, for fiscal, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The majority of unremitted earnings has been taxed in the U.S. through the transition tax and global intangible low tax income tax in connection with 2017 U.S. tax reform. The Company was not permanently reinvested in all jurisdictions with the exception of India as of March 31, 2019. As a result of the issuance of new U.S. Treasury regulations in the first quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company changed its permanent reinvestment assertions with respect to certain foreign corporations, reducing the amount that will ultimately be repatriated to the U.S. by approximately $492 million. However, as of March 31, 2020, the Company anticipates that future earnings in India will not be indefinitely reinvested. This change resulted from the Company's determination that it is now efficient to repatriate earnings in India as a result of the enactment of India Finance Act, 2020 on March 27, 2020 and the change in cash needs resulting from economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect a significant portion of the cash held by our foreign subsidiaries will no longer be subject to U.S. federal income tax upon repatriation to the U.S., however, a portion of this cash may still be subject to foreign and U.S. state tax consequences when remitted.
The Company accounts for income tax uncertainties in accordance with ASC 740 Income Taxes, which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement criteria for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. Benefits from tax positions should be recognized in the financial statements only when it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the appropriate taxing authority that would have full knowledge of all relevant information. A tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Tax positions that previously failed to meet the more likely than not recognition threshold should be recognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is met. Previously recognized tax positions that no longer meet the more likely than not recognition threshold should be derecognized in the first subsequent financial reporting period in which that threshold is no longer met. ASC 740 also provides guidance on the accounting for and disclosure of liabilities for uncertain tax positions, interest and penalties.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In accordance with ASC 740, the Company’s liability for uncertain tax positions was as follows:
The following table summarizes the activity related to the Company’s uncertain tax positions (excluding interest and penalties and related tax attributes):
The Company’s liability for uncertain tax positions at March 31, 2020, March 31, 2019 and March 31, 2018, includes $210 million, $138 million and $170 million, respectively, related to amounts that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate (excluding related interest and penalties). The increase relating to the prior year tax positions primarily relate to the Company's increase in research and development credits and reserves relating to certain legacy CSC foreign restructuring expenses deducted on the U.S. tax return for the year ending March 31, 2013.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company recognizes interest accrued related to uncertain tax positions and penalties as a component of income tax expense. During the year ended March 31, 2020, the Company had a net increase in interest expense of $5 million ($3 million net of tax) and a net decrease in accrued expense for penalties of $3 million and, as of March 31, 2020, recognized a liability for interest of $45 million ($40 million net of tax) and penalties of $21 million. During the year ended March 31, 2019, the Company had a net increase in interest expense of $2 million ($1 million net of tax) and a net decrease in accrued expense for penalties of $1 million and, as of March 31, 2019, recognized a liability for interest of $41 million ($36 million net of tax) and penalties of $25 million. The following table presents the change in interest and penalties from the previous reported period, as well as the liability at the end of each period presented:
The Company is currently under examination in several tax jurisdictions. A summary of the tax years that remain subject to examination in certain of the Company’s major tax jurisdictions are:
The IRS is examining CSC's federal income tax returns for fiscal 2008 through 2017. With respect to CSC's fiscal 2008 through 2010 federal tax returns, the Company previously entered into negotiations for a resolution through settlement with the IRS Office of Appeals. The IRS examined several issues for this audit that resulted in various audit adjustments. The Company and the IRS Office of Appeals have an agreement in principle as to some but not all of these adjustments. The Company has agreed to extend the statute of limitations associated with this audit through September 30, 2020.
In the first quarter of fiscal 2020, we filed for competent authority relief relating to certain legacy CSC foreign restructuring expenses deducted for the U.S. federal tax return for tax year March 31, 2013. The Company has agreed to extend the statute of limitations associated with the fiscal years 2011 through 2013 through December 31, 2020. In the second quarter of fiscal 2020, the Company received a Revenue Agent's Report with proposed adjustments to CSC's fiscal 2014 through 2017 federal returns. The Company has filed a protest for certain of these adjustments with the IRS Office of Appeals. The Company has agreed to extend the statute of limitations for the fiscal 2014 through fiscal 2016 through December 31, 2020 and for the employment tax audit of fiscal years 2015 and 2016 until January 31, 2021. The Company expects to reach a resolution for all years no earlier than the first quarter of fiscal 2022 except agreed issues related to fiscal 2008 through 2010 and fiscal 2011 through 2013 federal tax returns, which are expected to be resolved within twelve months.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In addition, the Company may settle certain other tax examinations, have lapses in statutes of limitations, or voluntarily settle income tax positions in negotiated settlements for different amounts than the Company has accrued as uncertain tax positions. The Company may need to accrue and ultimately pay additional amounts for tax positions that previously met a more likely than not standard if such positions are not upheld. Conversely, the Company could settle positions with the tax authorities for amounts lower than those that have been accrued or extinguish a position though payment. The Company believes the outcomes which are reasonably possible within the next twelve months may result in a reduction in liability for uncertain tax positions of $25 million to $27 million, excluding interest, penalties, and tax carryforwards.
Note 13 - Debt
The following is a summary of the Company's debt:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(1)
At DXC's option, DXC can borrow up to a maximum of €1 billion or its equivalent in U.S. dollars.
(2)
Variable interest rate equal to the bank bill swap bid rate for a one-, two-, three- or six-month interest period plus 0.60% to 0.95% based on the published credit ratings of DXC.
(3) Three-month LIBOR rate plus 0.80%.
(4) At DXC’s option, the EUR term loan bears interest at the Eurocurrency Rate for a one-, two-, three-, or six-month interest period, plus a margin of between 0.40% and 0.90%, based on published credit ratings of DXC.
(5) At DXC’s option, the EUR term loan bears interest at the Eurocurrency Rate for a one-, two-, three-, or six-month interest period, plus a margin of between 0.55% and 1.05%, based on published credit ratings of DXC.
(6) At DXC’s option, the USD term loan bears interest at the Eurocurrency Rate for a one-, two-, three-, or six-month interest period, plus a margin of between 1.00% and 1.50%, based on published credit ratings of DXC or the Base Rate plus a margin of between 0.00% and 0.50%, based on published credit ratings of DXC.
(7) Other borrowings consist mostly of 7.4% USD Senior Note.
Senior Notes and Term Loans
Interest on the Company's term loans is payable monthly or quarterly in arrears at the election of the borrowers. The Company fully and unconditionally guarantees term loans issued by its 100% owned subsidiaries. Interest on the Company's senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears, except for interest on the £250 million Senior notes due 2025 and €650 million Senior Notes due 2026 which is payable annually in arrears. Generally, the Company's notes are redeemable at the Company's discretion at the then-applicable redemption premium plus accrued interest.
Revolving Credit Facility
During fiscal 2020, the Company borrowed $1.5 billion from its credit facility agreement ("Credit Agreement") in order to eliminate the Company's reliance on commercial paper markets. The Company may repay amounts any time without penalty.
Subsequent Borrowings
See Note 23 - "Subsequent Events" for details.
Future Maturities of Long-term Debt
Expected maturities of long-term debt, including borrowings for asset financing but excluding minimum capital lease payments, for fiscal years subsequent to March 31, 2020, are as follows:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 14 - Pension and Other Benefit Plans
The Company offers a number of pension and OPEB plans, life insurance benefits, deferred compensation and defined contribution plans. Most of the Company's pension plans are not admitting new participants; therefore, changes to pension liabilities are primarily due to market fluctuations of investments for existing participants and changes in interest rates.
Defined Benefit Plans
The Company sponsors a number of defined benefit and post-retirement medical benefit plans for the benefit of eligible employees. The benefit obligations of the Company's U.S. pension, U.S. OPEB, and non-U.S. OPEB plans represent an insignificant portion of the Company's pension and other post-retirement benefit plans. As a result, the disclosures below include the Company's U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans on a global consolidated basis.
Eligible employees are enrolled in defined benefit pension plans in their country of domicile. The Contributory defined benefit pension plan in the United Kingdom represents the largest plan. In addition, healthcare, dental and life insurance benefits are also provided to certain non-U.S. employees. A significant number of employees outside the United States are covered by government sponsored programs at no direct cost to the Company other than related payroll taxes.
The Company accrued $10 million, $3 million and $13 million, for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, as additional contractual termination benefits for certain employees are part of the Company's restructuring plans. These amounts are reflected in the projected benefit obligation and in the net periodic pension cost.
Projected Benefit Obligations
The following table summarizes the weighted average rates used in the determination of the Company’s benefit obligations:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fair Value of Plan Assets and Funded Status
Selected Information
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Net Periodic Pension Cost
The service cost component of net periodic pension (income) expense is presented in cost of services and selling, general and administrative and the other components of net periodic pension income are presented in other income, net in the Company’s statements of operations. See Note 1 - "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies," for further discussion of the Company's adoption of ASU 2017-07 and its impact on the presentation of net periodic pension costs.
Estimated prior service credit of $8 million will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic pension cost over the next fiscal year. The weighted-average rates used to determine net periodic pension cost were:
The following is a summary of amounts in AOCI, before tax effects:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Estimated Future Contributions and Benefits Payments
Fair Value of Plan Assets
The tables below set forth the fair value of plan assets by asset category within the fair value hierarchy:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(1) Represents real estate and other commingled funds consisting mainly of equities, bonds, or commodities.
(2) Represents investments in diversified fund of hedge funds.
Changes in fair value measurements of level 3 investments for the defined benefit plans were as follows:
Domestic and global equity accounts are categorized as Level 1 if the securities trade on national or international exchanges and are valued at their last reported closing price. Equity assets in commingled funds reporting a net asset value are categorized as Level 2 and valued using broker dealer bids or quotes of securities with similar characteristics.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fixed income accounts are categorized as Level 1 if traded on a publicly quoted exchange or as level 2 if investments in corporate bonds are primarily investment grade bonds, generally priced using model-based pricing methods that use observable market data as inputs. Broker dealer bids or quotes of securities with similar characteristics may also be used.
Alternative investment fund securities are categorized as Level 1 if held in a mutual fund or in a separate account structure and actively traded through a recognized exchange, or as Level 2 if they are held in commingled or collective account structures and are actively traded. Alternative investment fund securities are classified as Level 3 if they are held in Limited Company or Limited Partnership structures or cannot otherwise be classified as Level 1 or Level 2.
Other assets represent property holdings by certain pension plans. As above, the property holdings represent a master lease arrangement entered into by DXC in the United Kingdom and certain U.K. pension plans as a financing transaction.
Insurance contracts purchased to cover benefits payable to retirees are valued using the assumptions used to value the projected benefit obligation.
Cash equivalents that have quoted prices in active markets are classified as Level 1. Short-term money market commingled funds are categorized as Level 2 and valued at cost plus accrued interest which approximates fair value.
Plan Asset Allocations
Plan assets are held in a trust that includes commingled funds subject to country specific regulations and invested primarily in commingled funds. For the U.K. pension plans, the Company's largest pension plans by assets and projected liabilities, a target allocation by asset class was developed to achieve their long-term objectives. Asset allocations are monitored closely and investment reviews regarding asset strategy are conducted regularly with internal and external advisors.
The Company’s investment goals and risk management strategy for plan assets evaluates a number of factors, including the time horizon of the plans’ obligations. Plan assets are invested in various asset classes that are expected to produce a sufficient level of diversification in order to reduce risk, yet produces a reasonable amount of return on investment over the long term. Sufficient liquidity is maintained to meet benefit obligations as they become due. Third party investment managers are employed to invest assets in both passively-indexed and actively-managed strategies. Equities are primarily invested broadly in domestic and foreign companies across market capitalizations and industries. Fixed income securities are invested broadly, primarily in government treasury, corporate credit, mortgage backed and asset backed investments. Alternative investment allocations are included in selected plans to achieve greater portfolio diversity intended to reduce the overall volatility risk of the plans.
Plan asset risks include longevity, inflation, and other changes in market conditions that could reduce the value of plan assets. Also, a decline in the yield of high quality corporate bonds may adversely affect discount rates resulting in an increase in DXC's pension and other post-retirement obligations. These risks, among others, could cause the plans’ funded status to deteriorate, resulting in an increased reliance on Company contributions. Derivatives are permitted although their current use is limited within traditional funds and broadly allowed within alternative funds. Derivatives are used for inflation risk management and within the liability driven investing strategy. The Company also has investments in insurance contracts to pay plan benefits in certain countries.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Return on Assets
The Company consults with internal and external advisors regarding the expected long-term rate of return on assets. The Company uses various sources in its approach to compute the expected long-term rate of return of the major asset classes expected in each of the plans. DXC utilizes long-term, asset class return assumptions of typically 30 years, which are provided by external advisors. Consideration is also given to the extent active management is employed in each asset class and also to management expenses. A single expected long-term rate of return is calculated for each plan by assessing the plan's expected asset allocation strategy, the benefits of diversification therefrom, historical excess returns from actively managed traditional investments, expected long-term returns for alternative investments and expected investment expenses. The resulting composite rate of return is reviewed by internal and external parties for reasonableness.
Retirement Plan Discount Rate
The U.K. discount rate is based on the yield curve approach using the U.K. Aon Hewitt GBP Single Agency AA Corporates-Only Curve.
U.K. Pension Equalization Ruling
On October 26, 2018 the High Court of Justice in the United Kingdom (the "High Court") issued a ruling related to the equalization of benefits payable to men and women for the effect of guaranteed minimum pensions under U.K. defined benefit pension plans. As a result of this ruling, the Company estimated the impact of retroactively increasing benefits in its U.K. plans in accordance with the High Court ruling. The Company treated the additional benefits as a prior service cost which resulted in an increase to its projected benefit obligation and accumulated other comprehensive loss of $28 million. The Company will amortize this cost over the average remaining life expectancy of the U.K. participants. Given the immaterial effect on the U.K. plan's projected benefit, an interim remeasurement was not performed.
Defined Contribution Plans
The Company sponsors defined contribution plans for substantially all U.S. employees and certain foreign employees. The plans allow employees to contribute a portion of their earnings in accordance with specified guidelines. Matching contributions are made annually in January to participants employed on December 31 of the prior year and vest in one year. However, if a participant retires from the Company or dies prior to December 31, the participant will be eligible to receive matching contributions approximately 30 days following separation from service. During fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company contributed $192 million, $219 million and $245 million, respectively, to its defined contribution plans. As of March 31, 2020, plan assets included 3,393,616 shares of the Company’s common stock.
Deferred Compensation Plans
Effective as of the HPES Merger, DXC assumed sponsorship of the Computer Sciences Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan, which was renamed the “DXC Technology Company Deferred Compensation Plan” (the “DXC DCP”), and adopted the Enterprise Services Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the “ES DCP”). Both plans are non-qualified deferred compensation plans maintained for a select group of management, highly compensated employees and non-employee directors.
The DXC DCP covers eligible employees who participated in CSC’s Deferred Compensation Plan prior to the HPES Merger. The ES DCP covers eligible employees who participated in the HPE Executive Deferred Compensation Plan prior to the HPES Merger. Both plans allow participating employees to defer the receipt of current compensation to a future distribution date or event above the amounts that may be deferred under DXC’s tax-qualified 401(k) plan, the DXC Technology Matched Asset Plan. Neither plan provides for employer contributions. As of April 3, 2017, the ES DCP does not admit new participants.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Certain management and highly compensated employees are eligible to defer all, or a portion of, their regular salary that exceeds the limitation set forth in Internal Revenue Section 401(a)(17) and all or a portion of their incentive compensation. Non-employee directors are eligible to defer up to 100% of their cash compensation. The liability under the plan, which is included in other long-term liabilities in the Company's balance sheets, amounted to $48 million as of March 31, 2020 and $59 million as of March 31, 2019. The Company's expense under the Plan totaled $0 million, $2 million and $4 million, for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Note 15 - Stockholders' Equity
Description of Capital Stock
The Company has authorized share capital consisting of 750,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share.
Each share of common stock is equal in all respects to every other share of common stock of the Company. Each share of common stock is entitled to one vote per share at each annual or special meeting of stockholders for the election of directors and upon any other matter coming before such meeting. Subject to all the rights of the preferred stock, dividends may be paid to holders of common stock as and when declared by the Board of Directors (the "Board").
The Company's charter requires that preferred stock must be all of one class but may be issued from time to time in one or more series, each of such series to have such full or limited voting powers, if any, and such designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights or qualifications, limitations or restrictions as provided in a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. Each share of preferred stock will rank on a parity with each other share of preferred stock, regardless of series, with respect to the payment of dividends at the respectively designated rates and with respect to the distribution of capital assets according to the amounts to which the shares of the respective series are entitled.
Share Repurchase Program
On April 3, 2017, DXC announced the establishment of a share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors with an initial authorization of up to $2.0 billion for future repurchases of outstanding shares of DXC common stock. On November 8, 2018, DXC announced that its board of directors approved an incremental $2.0 billion share repurchase authorization. An expiration date has not been established for this repurchase plan. Share repurchases may be made from time to time through various means, including in open market purchases, 10b5-1 plans, privately-negotiated transactions, accelerated stock repurchases, block trades and other transactions, in compliance with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act as well as, to the extent applicable, other federal and state securities laws and other legal requirements. The timing, volume, and nature of share repurchases pursuant to the share repurchase plan are at the discretion of management and may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
As part of the share repurchase program, during fiscal 2020, DXC entered into an accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") agreement with a third-party financial institution and repurchased 3,654,544 shares of common stock for $200 million, resulting in an average price paid of $54.73 per share.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The shares repurchased are retired immediately and included in the category of authorized but unissued shares. The excess of purchase price over par value of the common shares is allocated between additional paid-in capital and retained earnings. The details of shares repurchased are shown below:
Treasury Stock Transactions
In fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 the Company accepted 38,902, 42,008 and 332,558 shares of its common stock, respectively, in lieu of cash in connection with the exercise of stock options. In fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company accepted 321,148, 729,703 and 684,389 shares of its common stock, respectively, in lieu of cash in connection with the tax withholdings associated with the release of common stock upon vesting of restricted stock and RSUs. As a result, the Company holds 2,148,708 treasury shares as of March 31, 2020.
Dividends
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income
The following table shows the changes in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of taxes:
Note 16 - Stock Incentive Plans
Equity Plans
As a result of the Separation of USPS, shared-based awards issued by the Company were modified. The number of stock options and exercise price were adjusted to generally preserve the intrinsic value immediately prior to the Separation. There was no incremental share-based compensation expense recognized as a result of the modification of the awards.
As a result of the HPES Merger, all outstanding CSC awards of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock units ("CSC RSUs"), including performance-based restricted stock units, relating to CSC common stock granted
under the 2011 Omnibus Incentive Plan, the 2007 Employee Incentive Plan and the 2010 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (the “CSC Equity Incentive Plans”) held by CSC employees and non-employee directors were converted into an adjusted award relating to DXC common shares subject to the same terms and conditions after the HPES Merger as the terms and conditions applicable to such awards prior to the HPES Merger.
Under the terms of the CSC Equity Incentive Plans and the individual award agreements, all unvested equity incentive awards, including all stock options and CSC RSUs held by all participants under the plans, including its named executive officers and directors, are subject to accelerated vesting in whole or in part upon the occurrence of a change in control or upon the participant’s termination of employment on or after the occurrence of a change in control under certain circumstances ("CIC events"). As a result of CIC events triggered by the HPES Merger, approximately 3.6 million unvested awards became vested on April 1, 2017 and $26 million of incremental stock compensation expense was recognized. CSC options granted in fiscal 2017 vested 33% upon the HPES Merger; the remaining 67% were converted into DXC RSUs based on the accounting value of the options. These RSUs will vest on the second and third anniversaries of the original option grant date. For equity incentive awards granted by HPE under HPE equity incentive plans to HPES employees prior to the HPES Merger, outstanding options (vested and unvested) and unvested RSU awards were converted upon the HPES Merger into economically equivalent DXC option and RSU awards, with terms and conditions substantially the same as the terms of such awards prior to the HPES Merger.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In March 2017, prior to the HPES Merger, the board of directors and shareholders of HPES approved DXC’s 2017 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the “DXC Employee Equity Plan”), DXC’s 2017 Non-Employee Director Incentive Plan (the “DXC Director Equity Plan”) and DXC’s 2017 Share Purchase Plan (“DXC Share Purchase Plan”). The terms of the DXC Employee Equity Plan and DXC Director Equity Plans are substantially similar to the terms of the CSC Equity Incentive Plans. The former allows DXC to grant stock options (including incentive stock options), stock appreciation rights ("SARs"), restricted stock, RSUs (including PSUs), and cash awards intended to qualify for the performance-based compensation exemption to the $1 million deduction limit under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code (collectively the "Awards"). Awards are typically subject to vesting over the 3-year period following the grant date. Vested stock options are generally exercisable for a term of 10 years from the grant date. All of DXC’s employees are eligible for awards under the plan. The Company issues authorized but previously unissued shares upon the granting of stock options and the settlement of RSUs and PSUs.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has broad authority to grant awards and otherwise administer the DXC Employee Equity Plan. The plan became effective March 30, 2017 and will continue in effect for a period of 10 years thereafter, unless terminated earlier by the Board. The Board has the authority to amend the plan in such respects as it deems desirable, subject to approval of DXC’s stockholders for material modifications.
RSUs represent the right to receive one share of DXC common stock upon a future settlement date, subject to vesting and other terms and conditions of the award, plus any dividend equivalents accrued during the award period. In general, if the employee’s status as a full-time employee is terminated prior to the vesting of the RSU grant in full, then the RSU grant is automatically canceled on the termination date and any unvested shares and dividend equivalents are forfeited. Certain executives were awarded service-based "career share" RSUs for which the shares are settled over the 10 anniversaries following the executive's separation from service as a full-time employee, provided the executive complies with certain non-competition covenants during that period.
The Company also grants PSUs, which generally vest over a period of 3 years. The number of PSUs that ultimately vest is dependent upon the Company’s achievement of certain specified financial performance criteria over a 3-year period. If the specified performance criteria are met, awards are settled for shares of DXC common stock and dividend equivalents upon the filing with the SEC of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the last fiscal year of the performance period. PSU awards include the potential for up to 25% of the shares granted to be earned after the first and second fiscal years if certain of the Company's performance targets are met early, subject to vesting based on the participant's continued employment through the end of the 3-year performance period.
The terms of the DXC Director Equity Plan allow DXC to grant RSU awards to non-employee directors of DXC. Such RSU awards vest in full at the earlier of (i) the first anniversary of the grant date or (ii) the next annual meeting date, and are automatically redeemed for DXC common stock and dividend equivalents either at that time or, if an RSU deferral election form is submitted, upon the date or event elected by the director. Distributions made upon a director’s separation from the Board may occur in either a lump sum or in annual installments over periods of 5, 10, or 15 years, per the director’s election. In addition, RSUs vest in full upon a change in control of DXC.
The DXC Share Purchase Plan allows DXC’s employees located in the United Kingdom to purchase shares of DXC’s common stock at the fair market value of such shares on the applicable purchase date. There were 28,779 shares purchased under this plan during fiscal 2020.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Board has reserved for issuance shares of DXC common stock, par value $0.01 per share, under each of the plans as detailed below:
The Company recognized share-based compensation expense for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 as follows:
As of March 31, 2020, total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested DXC RSUs, net of expected forfeitures was $123 million, respectively. The unrecognized compensation expense for unvested RSUs is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.86 years.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Stock Options
The Company’s stock options vest one-third annually on each of the first three anniversaries of the grant date. Stock options are generally granted for a term of ten years. Information concerning stock options granted under stock incentive plans was as follows:
(1) The amount of the weighted average exercise price per share has been revised to reflect the impact of the Separation.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The total fair value of stock options vested during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $0 million, $0 million and $22 million, respectively. The cash received from stock options exercised during fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $9 million, $34 million and $98 million, respectively.
Restricted Stock Units
RSUs represent the right to receive one share of DXC common stock upon a future settlement date, subject to vesting and other terms and conditions of the award, plus any dividend equivalents accrued during the award period. In general, if the employee’s status as a full-time employee is terminated prior to the vesting of the RSU grant in full, then the RSU grant is automatically canceled on the termination date and any unvested shares and dividend equivalents are forfeited. Certain executives were awarded service-based "career share" RSUs for which the shares are settled over the 10 anniversaries following the executive's separation from service as a full-time employee, provided the executive complies with certain non-competition covenants during that period.
Performance Stock Units
The Company also grants PSUs, which generally vest over a period of 3 years. The number of PSUs that ultimately vest is dependent upon the Company’s achievement of certain specified financial performance criteria over a three-year period. If the specified performance criteria are met, awards are settled for shares of DXC common stock and dividend equivalents upon the filing with the SEC of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the last fiscal year of the performance period. PSU awards include the potential for accelerated vesting of 25% of the shares granted after each of the first and second fiscal years if certain of the Company's performance targets are met early, and are subject to final vesting based on the participant's continued employment through the end of the three-year performance period. Compensation expense during the performance period is estimated at each reporting date using management's expectation of the probable achievement of the specified performance criteria and is adjusted to the extent the expected achievement changes. In the table below, such awards are reflected at the number of shares originally granted.
Information concerning RSUs and PSUs granted under the stock incentive plans was as follows:
(1) The amount of the weighted average fair value per share has been revised to reflect the impact of the USPS Separation.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Non-employee Director Incentives
The Company has one stock incentive plan which authorizes the issuance of stock options, restricted stock and other share-based incentives to non-employee directors upon terms approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. As of March 31, 2020, 39,451 shares of DXC common stock remained available for the grant of future RSUs or other share-based incentives to nonemployee directors.
RSU awards to non-employee directors are granted at a price of $0. For RSU awards granted in fiscal 2014 and thereafter, RSUs vest and settle at the earlier of (i) the one-year anniversary of the grant date, or (ii) the date of the Company's first Annual Meeting of the Stockholders held after the grant date. Alternatively, settlement of the RSU may be deferred per election of the non-employee director. For awards granted in fiscal 2013 and prior, vested RSUs were automatically settled for shares of DXC common stock and dividend equivalents when the non-employee director ceases to be a director of the Company. At the holder’s election, the RSUs may be settled (i) in their entirety, upon the day the holder ceases to be a director, or (ii) in substantially equal amounts upon the first five, ten or fifteen anniversaries of such termination of service.
Information concerning RSUs granted to non-employee directors was as follows:
(1) The amount of the weighted average fair value per share has been revised to reflect the impact of the USPS Separation.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 17 - Cash Flows
Cash payments for interest on indebtedness and income taxes and other select non-cash activities are as follows:
(1) Income tax refunds were $42 million, $174 million, and $38 million for fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
(2) Net of $87 million change in lease classification from operating to finance lease and $216 million in modifications and terminations.
Note 18 - Other Income
The following table summarizes components of other income, net:
Non-service cost components of net periodic pension income resulted from higher expected return on assets and actuarial gain, offset by interest cost. See Note 14 - Pension and Other Benefit Plans. Foreign currency loss (gain) resulted from the movement of foreign currency exchange rates on the Company’s foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, related hedges including options to manage its exposure to economic risk and the cost of the Company’s hedging program.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 19 - Segment and Geographic Information
DXC has a matrix form of organization and is managed in several different and overlapping groupings including services, industries and geographic regions. As a result, and in accordance with accounting standards, operating segments are organized by the type of services provided. DXC's chief operating decision maker ("CODM"), the chief executive officer, obtains, reviews, and manages the Company’s financial performance based on these segments. The CODM uses these results, in part, to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources to, each of the segments.
As a result of the Separation, USPS is no longer included as a reportable segment and its results have been reclassified to discontinued operations, net of taxes, for all periods presented. See Note 3 - "Divestitures." DXC now operates in two reportable segments as described below:
Global Business Services
GBS provides innovative technology solutions that help our customers address key business challenges and accelerate digital transformations tailored to each customer’s industry and specific objectives. GBS enterprise technology stack offerings include:
•
Analytics and Engineering. Our portfolio of analytics services and extensive partner ecosystem help customers gain rapid insights, automate operations, and accelerate their digital transformation journeys. We provide software engineering and solutions that enable businesses to run and manage their mission-critical functions, transform their operations and develop new ways of doing business.
•
Applications. We use advanced technologies and methods to accelerate the creation, modernization, delivery and maintenance of high-quality, secure applications allowing customers to innovate faster while reducing risk, time to market, and total cost of ownership, across industries. Our vertical-specific IP includes solutions for insurance; banking and capital markets; and automotive, among others.
GBS offerings also includes business process services, which include digital integration and optimization of front and back office processes, and agile process automation. This helps companies to reduce cost, and minimize business disruption, human error, and operational risk while improving customer experiences.
Global Infrastructure Services
GIS provides a portfolio of technology offerings that deliver predictable outcomes and measurable results, while reducing business risk and operational costs for customers. GIS enterprise stack elements include:
•
Cloud and Security. We help customers to rapidly modernize by adapting legacy apps to cloud, migrate the right workloads, and securely manage their multi-cloud environments. Our security solutions help predict attacks, proactively respond to threats, ensure compliance and protect data, applications and infrastructure.
•
IT Outsourcing. Our ITO services support infrastructure, applications, and workplace IT operations, including hardware, software, physical/virtual end-user devices, collaboration tools, and IT support services. We help customers securely optimize operations to ensure continuity of their systems and respond to new business and workplace demands, while achieving cost takeout, all with limited resources, expertise and budget.
GIS offerings also include workplace and mobility services to fit our customer’s employee, business and IT needs from intelligent collaboration, modern device management, digital support services Internet of Things ("IoT") and mobility services, providing a consumer-like, digital experience.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Segment Measures
The following table summarizes operating results regularly provided to the CODM by reportable segment and a reconciliation to the financial statements:
(1) Depreciation and amortization as presented excludes amortization of acquired intangible assets of $583 million, $539 million, and $526 million for fiscal 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Reconciliation of Reportable Segment Profit to Consolidation
The Company's management uses segment profit as the measure for assessing performance of its segments. Segment profit is defined as segment revenues less cost of services, segment selling, general and administrative, depreciation and amortization, and other income (excluding the movement in foreign currency exchange rates on DXC's foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities and the related economic hedges). The Company does not allocate to its segments certain operating expenses managed at the corporate level. These unallocated costs include certain corporate function costs, stock-based compensation expense, pension and OPEB actuarial and settlement gains and losses, restructuring costs, transaction, separation, and integration-related costs, amortization of acquired intangible assets.
Management does not use total assets by segment to evaluate segment performance or allocate resources. As a result, assets are not tracked by segment and therefore, total assets by segment is not disclosed.
Geographic Information
See Note 20 - "Revenue" for the Company's revenue by geography. Property and equipment, net, which is based on the physical location of the assets, was as follows:
No single customer exceeded 10% of the Company’s revenues during fiscal 2020, fiscal 2019 or fiscal 2018.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 20 - Revenue
Revenue Recognition
The following table presents DXC's revenues disaggregated by geography, based on the location of incorporation of the DXC entity providing the related goods or services:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(1)
Prior period amounts have not been recast under the modified retrospective transition method.
The revenue by geography pertains to both of the Company’s reportable segments. Refer to Note 19 - "Segment and Geographic Information" for the Company’s segment disclosures.
Remaining Performance Obligations
Remaining performance obligations represent the aggregate amount of the transaction price in contracts allocated to performance obligations not delivered, or partially undelivered, as of the end of the reporting period. Remaining performance obligation estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue that has not materialized and adjustments for currency. As of March 31, 2020, approximately $24.0 billion of revenue is expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations. The Company expects to recognize revenue on approximately 42% of these remaining performance obligations in Fiscal 2021, with the remainder of the balance recognized thereafter.
Contract Balances
The following table provides information about the balances of the Company's trade receivables and contract assets and contract liabilities:
Change in contract liabilities were as follows:
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The following tables provides information about the Company’s capitalized costs to obtain and fulfill a contract:
(1)
Capitalized sales commission costs are included within other assets in the accompanying balance sheets. Amortization expense of $72 million and $62 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively, related to the capitalized sales commission assets are included in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the accompanying statements of operations.
(2)
Transition and transformation contract costs, net reflect the Company’s setup costs incurred upon initiation of an outsourcing contract that are classified as other assets in the accompanying balance sheets. Amortization expense of $280 million and $258 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2019, respectively, are included within depreciation and amortization in the accompanying statements of operations.
Note 21 - Restructuring Costs
The Company recorded restructuring costs, net of reversals, of $252 million, $465 million and $789 million for fiscal 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The costs recorded during fiscal 2020 were largely the result of implementing the Fiscal 2020 Plan, as described below.
The composition of restructuring liabilities by financial statement line items is as follows:
Summary of Restructuring Plans
Fiscal 2020 Plan
During fiscal 2020, management approved cost savings initiatives designed to reduce operating costs by re-balancing its workforce and facilities structures (the "Fiscal 2020 Plan"). The Fiscal 2020 Plan includes workforce optimization programs and facilities and data center rationalization.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Fiscal 2019 Plan
During fiscal 2019, management approved global cost savings initiatives designed to better align the Company's organizational structure with its strategic initiatives and continue the integration of HPES and other acquisitions (the "Fiscal 2019 Plan"). The Fiscal 2019 Plan includes workforce optimization and rationalization of facilities and data center assets. Costs incurred to date under the Fiscal 2019 Plan total $482 million, comprising $338 million in employee severance and $144 million of facilities costs.
Fiscal 2018 Plan
In June 2017, management approved a post-HPES Merger restructuring plan to optimize the Company's operations in response to a continuing business contraction (the "Fiscal 2018 Plan"). The Fiscal 2018 Plan focuses mainly on optimizing specific aspects of global workforce, increasing the proportion of work performed in low cost offshore locations and re-balancing the pyramid structure. Additionally, this plan included global facility restructuring, including a global data center restructuring program. Costs incurred to date under the Fiscal 2018 Plan total $771 million, comprising $584 million in employee severance and $187 million of facilities costs.
Other Prior Year Plans
In May 2016, the Company initiated a restructuring plan to realign the Company's cost structure and resources to take advantage of operational efficiencies following recent acquisitions. During the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017, the Company expanded the plan to strengthen the Company's competitiveness and to optimize the workforce by increasing work performed in low-cost locations (the "Fiscal 2017 Plan"). Total costs incurred to date under the Fiscal 2017 Plan total $215 million, comprising $206 million in employee severance and $9 million of facilities costs.
Acquired Restructuring Liabilities
As a result of the merger of Computer Sciences Corporation ("CSC") and HPES ("HPES Merger"), DXC acquired restructuring liabilities under restructuring plans that were initiated for HPES under plans approved by the HPE Board of Directors.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Restructuring activities, summarized by plan year, were as follows:
(1) Represents restructuring liability recorded as an offset to right-of-use assets upon the adoption of ASC 842.
(2) Costs expensed, net of reversals include $30 million, $11 million, and $3 million of costs reversed from the Fiscal 2019 Plan, Fiscal 2018 Plan and Other Prior Year Plans, respectively.
(3) Pension benefit augmentations recorded as a pension liability and asset impairment.
(4) Foreign currency translation adjustments.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(1) Costs expensed, net of reversals include $48 million, $3 million, and $1 million of costs reversed from the Fiscal 2018 Plan, Fiscal 2017 Plan and Other Prior Year Plans, respectively.
(2) Pension benefit augmentations recorded as a pension liability and asset impairment.
(3) Foreign currency translation adjustments.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 22 - Commitments and Contingencies
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Commitments
The Company signed long-term purchase agreements with certain software, hardware, telecommunication and other service providers to obtain favorable pricing and terms for services and products that are necessary for the operations of business activities. Under the terms of these agreements, the Company is contractually committed to purchase specified minimums over periods ranging from 1 to 5 years. If the Company does not meet the specified minimums, the Company would have an obligation to pay the service provider all, or a portion, of the shortfall. Minimum purchase commitments as of March 31, 2020 were as follows:
(1) A significant portion of the minimum purchase commitments in fiscal 2021 relate to the amounts committed under the HPE preferred vendor agreements.
In the normal course of business, the Company may provide certain clients with financial performance guarantees, and at times performance letters of credit or surety bonds. In general, the Company would only be liable for the amounts of these guarantees in the event that non-performance by the Company permits termination of the related contract by the Company’s client. The Company believes it is in compliance with its performance obligations under all service contracts for which there is a financial performance guarantee, and the ultimate liability, if any, incurred in connection with these guarantees will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated results of operations or financial position.
The Company also uses stand-by letters of credit, in lieu of cash, to support various risk management insurance policies. These letters of credit represent a contingent liability and the Company would only be liable if it defaults on its payment obligations on these policies.
The following table summarizes the expiration of the Company’s financial guarantees and stand-by letters of credit outstanding as of March 31, 2020:
The Company generally indemnifies licensees of its proprietary software products against claims brought by third parties alleging infringement of their intellectual property rights, including rights in patents (with or without geographic limitations), copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets. DXC’s indemnification of its licensees relates to costs arising from court awards, negotiated settlements, and the related legal and internal costs of those licensees. The Company maintains the right, at its own cost, to modify or replace software in order to eliminate any infringement. The Company has not incurred any significant costs related to licensee software indemnification.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Contingencies
Vincent Forcier v. Computer Sciences Corporation and The City of New York: On October 27, 2014, the United States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of New York and the Attorney General for the State of New York filed complaints-in-intervention on behalf of the United States and the State of New York, respectively, against CSC and The City of New York, based on a qui tam complaint originally filed under seal in 2012 by Vincent Forcier, a former employee of CSC. The complaints allege that from 2008 to 2012 New York City and CSC, in its role as fiscal agent for New York City’s Early Intervention Program ("EIP"), violated the federal and state False Claims Acts and various common law standards by allegedly orchestrating a billing fraud against Medicaid through the misapplication of default billing codes and the failure to exhaust private insurance coverage before submitting claims to Medicaid. The lawsuits seek treble statutory damages, other civil penalties and attorneys’ fees and costs.
In June 2016, the Court dismissed Forcier’s amended complaint in its entirety. With regard to the complaints-in-intervention, the Court dismissed the federal claims alleging misuse of default diagnosis codes when the provider had entered an invalid code, and the state claims alleging failure to reimburse Medicaid when claims were subsequently paid by private insurance. The Court allowed the remaining claims to proceed. In September 2016, the United States and the State of New York each filed amended complaints-in-intervention, asserting additional claims that the compensation provisions of CSC’s contract with New York City rendered it ineligible to serve as a billing agent under state law.
CSC filed motions to dismiss and in August 2017, the Court granted in part and denied in part CSC's motions. In January 2018, CSC asserted a counterclaim against the State of New York on a theory of contribution and indemnification. The court denied the State's motion to dismiss CSC's counterclaim with respect to liability for claims not arising under the Federal False Claims Act.
The Parties have reached an agreement in principle to resolve the matter. The Company expects to enter into a stipulation dismissing the action in June 2020.
Strauch Fair Labor Standards Act Collective Action: On July 1, 2014, several plaintiffs filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the District of Connecticut on behalf of themselves and a putative nationwide collective of CSC system administrators, alleging CSC’s failure to properly classify these employees as non-exempt under the federal Fair Labor Standards Act ("FLSA"). Plaintiffs alleged similar state-law Rule 23 class claims pursuant to Connecticut and California statutes. Plaintiffs claimed double overtime damages, liquidated damages, and other amounts and remedies.
In 2015 the Court entered an order granting conditional certification under the FLSA of the collective of over 4,000 system administrators. Approximately 1,000 system administrators filed consents with the Court to participate in the FLSA collective. The class/collective action is currently made up of approximately 800 individuals who held the title of associate professional or professional system administrator.
In June 2017, the Court granted Rule 23 certification of a Connecticut state-law class and a California state-law class consisting of professional system administrators and associate professional system administrators. Senior professional system administrators were found not to qualify for Rule 23 certification under the state-law claims. CSC sought permission to appeal the Rule 23 decision to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, which was denied.
In December 2017, a jury trial was held and a verdict was returned in favor of plaintiffs. On August 6, 2019, the Court issued an order awarding plaintiffs $18.75 million in damages. In September 2019, Plaintiffs filed a motion seeking $14.1 million in attorneys’ fees and costs. The Court has yet to rule on this motion. The Company disagrees with the jury verdict and the damages award and is appealing the judgment of the Court.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Computer Sciences Corporation v. Eric Pulier, et al.: On May 12, 2015, CSC filed a civil complaint in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware against Eric Pulier, the former CEO of Service Mesh, Inc. ("SMI"), which CSC had acquired in November 2013. The complaint asserted claims for fraud, breach of contract and breach of fiduciary duty, based on allegations that Mr. Pulier had engaged in fraudulent transactions with two employees of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia Ltd. (“CBA”). The Court dismissed CSC’s claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith but allowed substantially all of the remaining claims to proceed. Mr. Pulier asserted counter-claims for breach of contract, fraud, negligent representation, rescission, and violations of the California Blue Sky securities law, all of which the Court dismissed in whole or in part, except for claims for breach of Mr. Pulier’s retention agreement.
In July 2017, the Court granted a motion by the United States for a 90-day stay of discovery pending the completion of a criminal investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California. In September 2017, a federal grand jury returned an indictment against Mr. Pulier, charging him with conspiracy, securities and wire fraud, obstruction of justice, and other violations of federal law (United States v. Eric Pulier, CR 17-599-AB). The Government sought an extension of the stay which the Delaware Chancery Court granted.
In December 2018, the Government filed an application to dismiss the indictment against Mr. Pulier, which was granted, and the indictment was dismissed with prejudice. In March 2019, the Delaware Chancery Court lifted the stay and denied CSC's motion for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction with respect to certain of Mr. Pulier's assets.
In August 2019, the Company entered into an agreement with Mr. Pulier, resolving all claims and counterclaims in the Delaware litigation through the division of amounts previously held in escrow for post-closing disputes.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) has filed a complaint against Mr. Pulier alleging various claims, including for fraud and falsifying books and records (Securities and Exchange Commission v. Eric Pulier, Case No. 2:17-cv-07124). The Court has set a trial date of December 1, 2020.
In February 2016, Mr. Pulier filed a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court seeking advancement of his legal fees and costs in the civil and criminal actions, pursuant to the terms of his agreements with SMI. The Court ruled that CSC Agility Platform - as the successor to SMI - is liable for advancing 80% of Mr. Pulier’s fees and costs in the civil and criminal actions. Pursuant to agreements with SMI, Mr. Pulier is obligated to repay all amounts advanced to him if it should ultimately be determined that he is not entitled to indemnification.
The Company remains obligated to advance amounts for Mr. Pulier’s legal fees and costs to defend the SEC action against him.
Kemper Corporate Services, Inc. v. Computer Sciences Corporation: In October 2015, Kemper Corporate Services, Inc. (“Kemper”) filed a demand for arbitration against CSC with the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”), alleging that CSC breached the terms of a 2009 Master Software License and Services Agreement and related Work Orders (the “Agreement”) by failing to complete a software translation and implementation plan by certain contractual deadlines. Kemper claimed breach of contract, seeking approximately $100 million in damages. CSC answered the demand for arbitration denying Kemper’s claims and asserting a counterclaim for unpaid invoices for services rendered by CSC.
A single arbitrator conducted an evidentiary hearing on the merits of the claims and counterclaims in April 2017. In October 2017, the arbitrator issued a partial final award, finding for Kemper on its breach of contract theory, awarding Kemper $84.2 million in compensatory damages plus prejudgment interest, denying Kemper’s claim for rescission as moot, and denying CSC’s counterclaim. Kemper moved to confirm the award in federal district court in Texas.
CSC moved to vacate the award, and in August 2018, the Magistrate Judge issued its Report and Recommendation denying CSC's vacatur motion. In September 2018, the District Court summarily accepted the Report and Recommendation without further briefing and entered a Final Judgment in the case. The Company promptly filed a notice of appeal to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. Following the submission of briefs, oral argument was held on September 5, 2019. On January 10, 2020, the Court of Appeals issued a decision denying the Company’s appeal. On January 24, 2020, the Company filed a Petition for Rehearing, seeking review by the entire en banc Court of Appeals. On February 14, 2020, the Court of Appeals denied the Company’s Petition.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Company has been pursuing coverage for the full scope of the award, interest, and legal fees and expenses, under the Company's applicable insurance policies. Certain carriers have accepted coverage while others have denied coverage. On February 21, 2020, the Company paid the balance of the judgment, which net of insurance recovery, total $60 million. The Company continues to pursue recovery with its insurance carriers.
Forsyth, et al. v. HP Inc. and Hewlett Packard Enterprise: On August 18, 2016, this purported class and collective action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, against HP and HPE alleging violations of the Federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act (“ADEA”), the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, California public policy and the California Business and Professions Code. Former business units of HPE now owned by the Company may be proportionately liable for any recovery by plaintiffs in this matter.
Plaintiffs seek to certify a nationwide class action under the ADEA comprised of all U.S. residents employed by defendants who had their employment terminated pursuant to a work force reduction (“WFR”) plan and who were 40 years of age or older at the time of termination. The class seeks to cover those impacted by WFRs on or after December 2014. Plaintiffs also seek to represent a Rule 23 class under California law comprised of all persons 40 years of age or older employed by defendants in the state of California and terminated pursuant to a WFR plan on or after August 18, 2012.
In January 2017, defendants filed a partial motion to dismiss and a motion to compel arbitration of claims by certain named and opt-in plaintiffs who had signed release agreements as part of their WFR packages. In September 2017, the Court denied the partial motion to dismiss without prejudice, but granted defendants’ motions to compel arbitration for those named and opt-in plaintiffs. The Court has stayed the entire action pending arbitration for these individuals, and administratively closed the case.
A mediation was held in October 2018 with the 16 named and opt-in plaintiffs who were involved in the case at that time. A settlement was reached, which included seven plaintiffs who were employed by former business units of HPE that are now owned by the Company. In June 2019, a second mediation was held with 145 additional opt-in plaintiffs who were compelled to arbitration pursuant to their release agreements. In December 2019, a settlement was reached with 142 of the opt-in plaintiffs, 35 of whom were employed by former business units of HPE that are now owned by the Company, and for which the Company is liable.
Former business units of the Company now owned by Perspecta may be proportionately liable for any recovery by plaintiffs in this matter.
Oracle America, Inc., et al. v. Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company: On March 22, 2016, Oracle filed a complaint against HPE in the Northern District of California, alleging copyright infringement, interference with contract, intentional interference with prospective economic relations, and unfair competition. The litigation relates in part to former business units of HPE that are now owned by the Company. The Company may be required to indemnify HPE for a portion of any recovery by Oracle in the litigation related to these business units.
Oracle’s claims arise primarily out of HPE’s prior relationship with a third-party maintenance provider named Terix Computer Company, Inc. (“Terix”). Oracle claims that Terix infringed its copyrights while acting as HPE’s subcontractor for certain customers of HPE’s multivendor support business. Oracle claims that HPE is liable for vicarious and contributory infringement arising from the alleged actions of Terix and for direct infringement arising from its own alleged conduct.
On June 14, 2018, the court heard oral argument on the parties’ cross-motions for summary judgment. On January 29, 2019, the court granted HPE’s motion for summary judgment and denied Oracle’s motion for summary judgment, resolving the matter in HPE’s favor. Oracle has appealed the judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. The parties have submitted their briefs in the appellate case, and oral argument has been scheduled for June 8, 2020.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
In re DXC Technology Company Securities Litigation: On December 27, 2018, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia against the Company and two of its current officers. The lawsuit asserts claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and is premised on allegedly false and/or misleading statements, and alleged non-disclosure of material facts, regarding the Company’s business, operations, prospects and performance during the proposed class period of February 8, 2018 to November 6, 2018. The Company has moved to dismiss the claims in their entirety. On July 26, 2019, the court heard oral argument on the Company’s motion to dismiss, and a decision is now pending.
In March 2019, three related shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the Eighth Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, in and for Clark County, against one of the Company’s current officers and a former officer as well as members of the Company’s board of directors, asserting claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets, and unjust enrichment. By agreement of the parties and order of the court, those lawsuits were consolidated on July 18, 2019, and are presently stayed pending resolution of the Company’s motion to dismiss in the federal putative class action filed in the Eastern District of Virginia.
On August 20, 2019, a purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara, against the Company, directors of the Company, and a former officer of the Company, among other defendants. On September 16, 2019, a substantially similar purported class action lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California against the Company, directors of the Company, and a former officer of the Company, among other defendants. On November 8, 2019, a third purported class action lawsuit was filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of San Mateo, against the Company, directors of the Company, and a former officer of the Company, among other defendants. The third lawsuit was voluntarily dismissed by the plaintiff and re-filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, County of Santa Clara on November 26, 2019, and thereafter was consolidated with the earlier-filed action in the same court on December 10, 2019. The California lawsuits assert claims under Sections 11, 12 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and are premised on allegedly false and/or misleading statements, and alleged non-disclosure of material facts, regarding the Company’s prospects and expected performance. Plaintiff in the federal action filed an amended complaint on January 8, 2020. The putative class of plaintiffs in these cases includes all persons who acquired shares of the Company’s common stock pursuant to the offering documents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the April 2017 transaction that formed DXC. The Company has filed a motion to stay the consolidated state court case in favor of the federal action and a motion to dismiss the federal action.
On October 2, 2019, a shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Eighth Judicial District Court of the State of Nevada, in and for Clark County, asserting various claims, including for breach of fiduciary duty and unjust enrichment, and challenging certain sales of securities by officers under Rule 10b5-1 plans. The shareholder filed this action after making a demand on the board of directors, alleging breaches of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and disclosure violations, and demanding that the board take certain actions to evaluate the allegations and respond. The Company’s board of directors analyzed the demand, and has determined to defer its decision on the demand pending developments in the securities and derivative lawsuits described above. The Company moved to dismiss the complaint on the basis that the Board’s decision to defer action was not a refusal of the demand and was within its discretion. The Company’s motion to dismiss was denied on January 22, 2020. On March 11, 2020, the Court granted a request by the Company to temporarily stay the case, in light of the proceedings in the Eastern District of Virginia.
On March 31, 2020, a group of individual shareholders filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, asserting non-class claims based on allegations substantially similar to those at issue in the earlier-filed putative class action complaints pending in the Northern District of California and Eastern District of Virginia. The plaintiffs assert claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and under Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. On April 29, 2020, the court granted an administrative motion to relate the case with the earlier-filed putative class action pending in the Northern District of California. And on May 13, 2020, the parties filed a stipulation requesting to stay the case subject to resolution of the motions to dismiss pending in the Northern District of California and Eastern District of Virginia class actions.
The Company believes that the lawsuits described above are without merit, and it intends to vigorously defend them.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Voluntary Disclosure of Certain Possible Sanctions Law Violations: On February 2, 2017, CSC submitted an initial notification of voluntary disclosure to the U.S. Department of Treasury, Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC") regarding certain possible violations of U.S. sanctions laws pertaining to insurance premium data and claims data processed by two partially-owned joint ventures of Xchanging, which CSC acquired during the first quarter of fiscal 2017. A copy of the disclosure was also provided to Her Majesty’s Treasury Office of Financial Sanctions Implementation in the United Kingdom. The Company is finalizing its internal investigation and provided supplemental information to OFAC on January 31, 2020.
Perspecta Arbitration: In October 2019, Perspecta submitted a demand for arbitration claiming that in June 2018 DXC breached certain obligations under the Separation and Distribution Agreement ("SDA") between Perspecta and DXC, and seeking at least $120 million in alleged damages. During the course of discovery, Perspecta has increased the amount of its alleged damages, first to $500 million and then to over $800 million. The Company believes there is no valid basis for Perspecta’s claims for these amounts. In its arbitration demand, Perspecta also challenges $39 million in invoices issued by DXC in June 2019 under its IT Services Agreement with Perspecta. DXC believes the invoices were properly issued and the amounts are owed by Perspecta. DXC believes that Perspecta's claims are without merit and intends to vigorously defend itself.
In addition to the matters noted above, the Company is currently subject in the normal course of business to various claims and contingencies arising from, among other things, disputes with customers, vendors, employees, contract counterparties and other parties, as well as securities matters, environmental matters, matters concerning the licensing and use of intellectual property, and inquiries and investigations by regulatory authorities and government agencies. Some of these disputes involve or may involve litigation. The financial statements reflect the treatment of claims and contingencies based on management's view of the expected outcome. DXC consults with outside legal counsel on issues related to litigation and regulatory compliance and seeks input from other experts and advisors with respect to matters in the ordinary course of business. Although the outcome of these and other matters cannot be predicted with certainty, and the impact of the final resolution of these and other matters on the Company’s results of operations in a particular subsequent reporting period could be material and adverse, management does not believe based on information currently available to the Company, that the resolution of any of the matters currently pending against the Company will have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company or the ability of the Company to meet its financial obligations as they become due. Unless otherwise noted, the Company is unable to determine at this time a reasonable estimate of a possible loss or range of losses associated with the foregoing disclosed contingent matters.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY - NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Note 23 - Subsequent Events
Credit Agreement Draw
On April 6, 2020, the Company borrowed the remaining $2.5 billion available under the Credit Agreement as a precautionary measure to increase its cash position and increase financial flexibility in light of continuing uncertainty in the global economy and financial capital markets resulting from the COVID-19 outbreak.
The Company expects to use the proceeds from the borrowings under the Credit Agreement for working capital, general corporate purposes or other purposes permitted under the Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus an individual margin based on DXC’s long-term debt rating.
Senior Notes
On April 21, 2020, DXC completed its previously announced offering of $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.000% Senior Notes due 2023 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of its 4.125% Senior Notes due 2025 (collectively, the “Notes”). The Company received $993 million net proceeds from the offering of the Notes, after deducting the underwriters’ discounts and the estimated expenses of the offering. The Company used the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes to prepay (i) €500 million of the €750 million term loan due fiscal 2022; (ii) £150 million of the £500 million term loan due fiscal 2022; (iii) A$300 million of the A$500 term loan due fiscal 2022; and (iv) $100 million of the $500 million term loan due fiscal 2025.
Amended Financial Covenants
On May 15, 2020, the company also amended the financial covenants in its revolver and terms loans to convert the debt to EBITDA covenant from gross debt to net debt to account for the cash amount on its balance sheet. At the same time, the company extended the tenor of its Euro term loans by one year.
Dividend
The Board of Directors has suspended the Company’s cash dividend payment beginning in the first quarter to preserve cash and provide additional flexibility in the current environment as a result of the economic impact of COVID-19. Furthermore, the Board has suspended future quarterly dividends until the significant uncertainty of the current public health crisis and global economic climate has passed and the Board determines that resumption of dividend payments is in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders.
No events, other than those described in these notes, have occurred that would require recognition or disclosure in the consolidated financial statements.
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
ITEM 8. Supplementary Data
All financial statement schedules have been omitted since they are either not required, not applicable, or the required information is shown in the financial statements or related notes. As a result of the USPS Separation, the statement of operations, balance sheets, and related financial information reflect USPS's operations, assets and liabilities as discontinued operations. See Note 3 - "Divestitures".
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
DXC TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
(1)
Quarterly EPS amounts may not total to the full-year EPS. EPS is calculated based on weighted average shares outstanding for the period. Quarterly weighted average shares may not equal the full-year weighted average shares for the fiscal year.
ITEM 9.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 6efb79554d93b6fbd7bf2b877d0de827
- Approx. Length: 36142 characters