# Context

Item 1. Business.
Overview
We are a patient-centric gene therapy company focused on developing and commercializing AAV-based gene therapies for the treatment of monogenic diseases of the central nervous system, or CNS, in both rare and large patient populations. We were founded in partnership with The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, or UT Southwestern, to develop and commercialize transformative gene therapy treatments. Together with UT Southwestern, we are advancing a deep and sustainable product portfolio of 25 gene therapy product candidates, with exclusive options to acquire four additional development programs at no cost. By combining our management team’s proven experience in gene therapy drug development and commercialization with UT Southwestern’s world-class gene therapy research capabilities, we believe we have created a powerful engine to develop transformative therapies to dramatically improve patients’ lives. A Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-101 for the treatment of infantile GM2 gangliosidosis was initiated by Queen’s University under an accepted Clinical Trial Application, or CTA, in Canada and Queen’s University expects to report preliminary safety and biomarker data in the second half of 2021 and preliminary clinical data by the end of 2021. We also plan to submit an investigational new drug application, or IND, for TSHA-101 for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, and initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial in the United States, each in the second half of 2021. In addition, we plan to submit INDs / CTAs for each of TSHA-102 (Rett syndrome) and TSHA-104 (SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome) in the second half of 2021 and one of the following programs in 2021: TSHA-103 (SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder), TSHA-105 (SLC13A5 deficiency), TSHA-111-LAFORIN (Lafora disease), TSHA-111-MALIN (Lafora disease), TSHA-112 (APBD) or TSHA-119 (GM2 AB variant). We are also developing TSHA-118 for the treatment of CLN1 disease (one of the forms of Batten disease) and intend to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-118 in the second half of 2021 under a currently open IND. Further, we are working to advance four new undisclosed programs focused on neurodevelopmental disorders, genetic epilepsies and neurodegenerative diseases into preclinical development in 2021. In addition to our product pipeline candidates, we are building a platform of next-generation technologies to optimize key components of our AAV-based gene therapies, including redosing, transgene regulation and capsid development.
Our pipeline consists of AAV9-based gene therapies intended to be delivered using the intrathecal route of administration. Our manufacturing process utilizes suspension HEK293 cell culture that is highly scalable from the preclinical stages of development through commercialization. We believe this combination of AAV9, intrathecal delivery and suspension cell culture will accelerate our product development timelines while enhancing our probability of successfully developing and commercializing safe, efficacious therapies for patients.
We use an adeno-associated virus serotype 9, or AAV9, capsid, to deliver therapeutic genes engineered to replace a mutated gene, enhance the expression of a silenced gene or decrease the expression of a gene, depending on the underlying biology of the specific disease. In preclinical studies, the AAV9 capsid has been observed to have significantly higher transduction efficiency in cells of the CNS in comparison to AAV serotypes used in other gene therapy programs. In third-party clinical trials, AAV9 has been shown to be well tolerated, and in 2019, Zolgensma was approved as the first systemic gene therapy utilizing AAV9 for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy, or SMA, Type 1, a severe neurodegenerative disease.
We use intrathecal administration, which involves direct delivery of our gene therapies to the cerebrospinal fluid, or CSF, to facilitate optimal biodistribution and cell transduction within the CNS. Because the CNS is immune-privileged, intrathecal gene therapy may be administered even in the presence of pre-existing antibodies to AAV. We believe that intrathecal delivery of AAV9-based gene therapies provides the highest likelihood of achieving transformative efficacy for patients suffering from severe, life-threatening neurological diseases.
Our flexible manufacturing processes allow us to produce our gene therapy product candidates efficiently at scale. Through our partnership with UT Southwestern, we have access to a Good Manufacturing Practice-, or GMP-, compliant manufacturing suite that utilizes a suspension HEK293 process to produce AAV9. We believe this capacity will be sufficient to meet the clinical demand for our full pipeline of product candidates. We also are establishing our own commercial-scale, GMP-compliant manufacturing facility in Durham, North Carolina to meet demand in the event that our product candidates receive marketing approval. We expect to initiate construction on this facility in 2021.
Our portfolio of gene therapy candidates targets broad neurological indications across three distinct therapeutic categories, which together have the potential to address over 500,000 patients in the United States and the European Union: neurodegenerative diseases, neurodevelopmental disorders and genetic epilepsies. Neurodegenerative diseases refer to conditions characterized by the progressive degeneration of the structures and functions of the CNS. Our neurodegenerative product candidates include TSHA-101 for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis, a family of severe neurodegenerative diseases that includes Tay-Sachs disease and Sandhoff disease, TSHA-118 for the treatment of CLN1, a progressive, fatal neurodegenerative disease with early childhood onset, and TSHA-104 for the treatment of SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome, a fatal, early-onset neurodegenerative disease. Neurodevelopmental disorders are a group of conditions with onset during the time when the brain is developing and are a reflection of disabilities associated primarily with the functioning of the neurological system and brain. One of our neurodevelopmental product candidates, TSHA-102, is in development for the treatment of Rett syndrome, which is one of the most common genetic causes of severe intellectual disability. Genetic epilepsies refer to disorders with recurrent seizures associated with abnormal development of the brain. One of our genetic epilepsy product candidates, TSHA-103, is in development for the treatment of SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder, which is one of the most common monogenic causes of epilepsy. A Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-101 was initiated by Queen’s University under a CTA in Canada and Queen’s University expects to report preliminary safety and biomarker data in the second half of 2021 and preliminary clinical data by the end of 2021. We plan to submit an IND for TSHA-101 for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis to the FDA and initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial in the United States, each in the second half of 2021. In addition, we plan to submit an IND / CTA for each of TSHA-102 in Rett syndrome and TSHA-104 in SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome in the second half of 2021 and one of the following programs in 2021: TSHA-103 in SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder, TSHA-105 in SLC13A5 deficiency, TSHA-111-LAFORIN in Lafora disease, TSHA-111-MALIN in Lafora disease, TSHA-112 in APBD or TSHA-119 in GM2 AB variant. We also plan to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-118 in CLN1 in the second half of 2021 under a currently open IND. Further, we are working to advance four new undisclosed new programs focused on neurodevelopmental disorders, genetic epilepsies and neurodegenerative diseases into preclinical development in 2021.
We have established an exclusive, differentiated partnership with UT Southwestern, one of the premier academic medical centers in the United States. We hold an exclusive, worldwide royalty-free license from UT Southwestern to discover, develop and commercialize gene therapies for our pipeline. Within the framework of our partnership, UT Southwestern will conduct discovery and preclinical research, lead IND-enabling studies, manufacture GMP vectors for use in preclinical studies and clinical trials and execute natural history studies to support the development of our product candidates. We are responsible for all clinical development, regulatory filings, strategy, commercial manufacturing and commercialization of approved product candidates. UT Southwestern has developed a state-of-the-art GMP viral vector manufacturing facility with the capacity to support the development of our product candidates from the discovery stage through early clinical development. We believe these factors differentiate our partnership with UT Southwestern from traditional collaborations between industry and academia and will enable us to advance our development programs with speed and scale. Our collaboration with UT Southwestern is led by Dr. Steven Gray, an expert in the development of AAV-based gene therapies for CNS disorders, and Dr. Berge Minassian, an expert in the diagnosis, management and treatment of rare pediatric neurological disorders. Drs. Gray and Minassian are also our scientific founders and currently serve as our Chief Scientific Advisor and Chief Medical Advisor, respectively.
We believe that we have established a unique position in advancing the development of gene therapies. Our scientific founders, Drs. Gray and Minassian, have extensive experience in developing gene therapies and conducting clinical trials for complex CNS diseases. Our management team has significant experience in discovering, developing, manufacturing and commercializing gene therapies. The members of our leadership team have specialized expertise developed at companies including Audentes Therapeutics, AveXis, BioMarin, PTC Therapeutics, Rocket Pharmaceuticals, and Sanofi-Genzyme. Our board of directors played an integral role in the formation of our company and is comprised of Sean Nolan, the chairman of our board of directors and former Chief Executive Officer of AveXis, Phillip B. Donenberg, the former Chief Financial Officer of AveXis, Paul B. Manning of PBM Capital, Sukumar Nagendran, M.D., the former Chief Medical Officer of AveXis, Kathleen Reape, M.D., the former Chief Medical Officer of Spark Therapeutics, Laura Sepp-Lorenzino, Ph.D., Chief Scientific Officer of Intellia Therapeutics, and RA Session II, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Founder.
Our Pipeline
We are advancing a deep and sustainable product portfolio of 25 gene therapy product candidates for monogenic diseases of the CNS in both rare and large patient populations, with exclusive options to acquire four additional development programs at no cost. Our portfolio of gene therapy candidates targets broad neurological indications across three distinct therapeutic categories: neurodegenerative diseases, neurodevelopmental disorders and genetic epilepsies. Our current pipeline, including the stage of development of each of our product candidates, is represented in the table below.
TSHA-101, a neurodegenerative disease product candidate, is being developed for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis, including Tay-Sachs disease and Sandhoff disease. GM2 gangliosidosis refers to a group of lysosomal storage disorders resulting from a deficiency in the ß-hexosaminidase A, or Hex A, enzyme, leading to an accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in lysosomes and ultimately neuronal cell death and neurodegeneration. We are developing TSHA-101 as a bicistronic HEXBP2A-HEXA transgene packaged into an AAV9 vector under the control of a CAG promoter. A Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-101 was initiated by Queen’s University under a CTA in Canada and Queen’s University expects to report preliminary safety and biomarker data in the second half of 2021 and preliminary clinical data by the end of 2021. We plan to submit an IND and initiate a clinical trial in the United States, each in the second half of 2021.
TSHA-118, a neurodegenerative disease product candidate, is being developed for the treatment of CLN1 disease (one of the forms of Batten disease), a lysosomal storage disorder that is a progressive, fatal disease with early childhood onset. TSHA-118 is a self-complementary AAV9 viral vector that expresses human codon-optimized CLN1 complementary deoxyribonucleic acid under control of the chicken ß-actin hybrid promoter. Preclinical studies evaluating safety and biodistribution have been conducted, and we plan to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-118 in the second half of 2021 under a currently open IND.
TSHA-102, a neurodevelopmental disorder product candidate, is being developed for the treatment of Rett syndrome, one of the most common genetic causes of severe intellectual disability, characterized by rapid developmental regression and in many cases caused by heterozygous loss of function mutations in MECP2, a gene essential for neuronal and synaptic function in the brain. We designed TSHA-102 to prevent gene overexpression-related toxicity by inserting microRNA, or miRNA target binding sites into the 3’ untranslated region of viral genomes. This overexpression of MECP2 is seen in the clinic in patients with a condition known as MECP2 duplication syndrome, where elevated levels of MECP2 result in a clinical phenotype similar to Rett syndrome both in terms of symptoms and severity. TSHA-102 is constructed from a neuronal specific promoter, MeP426, coupled with the miniMECP2 transgene, a truncated version of MECP2, and miRNA-Responsive Auto-Regulatory Element, or miRARE, our novel miRNA target panel, packaged in self-complementary AAV9. We plan to submit an IND / CTA for TSHA-102 in the second half of 2021 and initiate a clinical trial by the end of 2021.
TSHA-104, a neurodegenerative disease product candidate, is being developed for the treatment of Surfeit locus 1, or SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome, a fatal, early-onset neurodegenerative disease. TSHA-104 is constructed from a codon-optimized version of the human SURF1 gene packaged within a self-complementary AAV9 viral vector under the control of a modified version of the chicken ß-actin, or CBA, promoter CBA hybrid intron, or CBh. We plan to submit an IND / CTA for TSHA-104 in the second half of 2021 and initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial by the end of 2021.
We plan to submit an IND / CTA in 2021 for one of the following programs: TSHA-103 in SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder, TSHA-105 in SLC13A5 deficiency, TSHA-111-LAFORIN in Lafora disease, TSHA-111-MALIN in Lafora disease, TSHA-112 in APBD or TSHA-119 in GM2 AB variant.
Our Strategic Partnership with The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
We have established a differentiated partnership with UT Southwestern, one of the premier academic medical centers in the United States with a focus on integrating pioneering biomedical research with exceptional clinical care and education. The UT Southwestern Gene Therapy Program is led by Steven Gray, Ph.D., Director of the Viral Vector Core and Associate Professor in the Department of Pediatrics, and Berge Minassian, M.D., Division Chief of Child Neurology.
Dr. Gray serves as our Chief Scientific Advisor. His core expertise is in AAV-based gene therapy vector engineering and optimizing approaches to deliver therapeutic transgene to the CNS. His research also includes the design and execution of preclinical studies to apply these approaches toward the development of treatments for neurological diseases including giant axonal neuropathy, or GAN, Krabbe disease, Batten disease, Tay-Sachs disease, Sandhoff disease and Rett syndrome. He is the lead investigator on the GAN gene therapy project, which was the first clinical development program to deliver AAV9 through intrathecal administration. Dr. Gray has published over 50 peer-reviewed papers in journals such as New England Journal of Medicine, Molecular Therapy, Nature Biotechnology, Gene Therapy and The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. His research has been funded by the National Institute for Neurological Disorders and Stroke, as well as numerous large and small research foundations and patient advocacy organizations. In 2019, Dr. Gray was the recipient of the American Society for Gene and Cell Therapy Outstanding New Investigator Award. He earned his Ph.D. in molecular biology from Vanderbilt University and a B.S. with honors from Auburn University. He performed his postdoctoral fellowship focusing on gene therapy in the laboratory of world-renowned gene therapy expert Jude Samulski at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
Dr. Minassian serves as our Chief Medical Advisor. He is a Professor in the Departments of Pediatrics, Neurology and Neurotherapeutics and Neuroscience at UT Southwestern. He is the Division Chief of Child Neurology and serves on the faculty of the Children’s Medical Center Research Institute at UT Southwestern. Dr. Minassian is a pediatric neurologist whose clinical specialties are epilepsy, neurodegenerative diseases and neurodevelopmental conditions. In 2004, Dr. Minassian described a new MECP2 isoform, MECP2B and its encoded protein MECP2B. Dr. Minassian is also credited with discovering the EPM2A and EPM2B genes that cause Lafora disease. He has published more than 120 scholarly articles and authored or contributed to 10 books, and his many professional honors include the Jacob’s Ladder 2014 Norman Saunders International Research Prize for Outstanding Scientist, the American Academy of Neurology 2007 Dreifuss-Penry Epilepsy Award, the Canadian Pediatric Society 2008 Sanofi Pasteur Research Award and the American Epilepsy Society 1996 Young Investigator Award. Dr. Minassian is a Fellow (Neurology) of the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Canada.
Our partnership with UT Southwestern is differentiated from traditional collaborations between industry and academia due to our access to UT Southwestern’s faculty, manufacturing facility and integrated research and clinical care approach, which, together, we believe will enable us to advance our development programs with speed and scale. Under the terms of our collaboration and license agreement with UT Southwestern, we have received an exclusive, worldwide royalty-free license to discover, develop and commercialize gene therapies for our pipeline.
Through our partnership, we are able to leverage the collective expertise of UT Southwestern researchers, clinicians and investigators with decades of experience in conducting cutting-edge research and providing clinical care, including in the neurodegenerative disease, neurodevelopmental disorder and genetic epilepsy therapeutic categories. Drs. Gray and Minassian expect significant growth in the number of researchers, clinicians, scientists and experts in gene therapy process development and manufacturing affiliated with the Gene Therapy Program over the next five years.
UT Southwestern’s state-of-the art, GMP viral vector manufacturing facility consists of a full process development laboratory and 500-liter GMP suite with the capacity to support multiple preclinical and early clinical development efforts in parallel.
UT Southwestern is home to a major pediatric neurology residency program. Dr. Minassian has spent more than two decades diagnosing patients with rare, often fatal disorders of the CNS. Dr. Minassian is focused on transforming the practice of clinical neurology through a commitment to integrating patient care and teaching, with the goal of fostering the development of new disease-modifying therapies. This unique integration of research and clinical care provides us with key insights into our patients’ disease and its progression, symptoms and impact on quality of life. We plan to use these insights to design and refine our preclinical studies and clinical trials, understand incidence, prevalence and molecular epidemiology of the diseases and disorders we intend to treat, select the appropriate clinical endpoints for our efficacy studies and identify and characterize serum and imaging biomarkers. We also expect that UT Southwestern will serve as a source of enrollment for our clinical trials, which is critically important for the less prevalent diseases in our pipeline. We collaborate with UT Southwestern to foster relationships with patient advocacy organizations and research foundations, including the National Tay-Sachs & Allied Diseases Association, Cure and Action for Tay-Sachs, SLC6A1 Connect, TESS Research Foundation, Cure Surf1 Foundation, Rett Syndrome Research Trust and FOXG1 Research Foundation.
In addition, we have entered into a Sponsored Research Agreement with UT Southwestern to fund the discovery and development of novel gene therapy candidates and next-generation technologies for monogenic diseases of the CNS. This expanded partnership will support UT Southwestern’s discovery efforts. We will pay the actual costs incurred by and reasonable overhead of UT Southwestern in conducting the research under the Sponsored Research Agreement, and we will have an exclusive option on new programs new programs and intellectual property associated with, and arising from, such research.
Our Strategy
We are building a patient-centric business with the goal of developing AAV-based gene therapies for the treatment of monogenic diseases of the CNS in both rare and large patient populations. We are focused on executing the following elements of our strategy:
•
Build a sustainable gene therapy company. Our goal is to build a gene therapy company with a sustainable pipeline of product candidates and a consistent stream of new commercial product launches. To that end, we are focused on advancing our current pipeline of AAV9-based gene therapies while actively developing our next-generation platforms to discover and develop additional product candidates.
•
Advance our lead product candidates through clinical trials to commercialization. Our product portfolio currently consists of 25 gene therapy product candidates targeting a diverse set of rare and prevalent CNS indications, with exclusive options to acquire four additional development programs from UT Southwestern at no cost. We intend to develop, seek regulatory approval and commercialize each product candidate in our portfolio. A Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-101 was initiated by Queen’s University under a CTA in Canada and Queen’s University expects to report preliminary safety and biomarker data in the second half of 2021 and preliminary clinical data by the end of 2021. We plan to submit an IND for TSHA-101 for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis to the FDA and initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial in the United States, each in the second half of 2021. In addition, we plan to submit an IND / CTA for each of TSHA-102 in Rett syndrome and TSHA-104 in SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome in the second half of 2021 and one of the following programs in 2021: TSHA-103 in SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder, TSHA-105 in SLC13A5 deficiency, TSHA-111-LAFORIN in Lafora disease, TSHA-111-MALIN in Lafora disease, TSHA-112 in APBD or TSHA-119 in GM2 AB variant. We intend to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-118 in CLN1 disease in 2021 under a currently open IND. If our clinical trials are successful, we plan to discuss expedited regulatory approval strategies with regulatory authorities. Further, we intend to advance four undisclosed programs into preclinical development in 2021.
•
Leverage our relationship with UT Southwestern. We are anchored by a differentiated strategic partnership with UT Southwestern that allows us to access a highly experienced team of researchers and clinicians with deep experience in the underlying biology and treatment of monogenic CNS disorders and the patient populations that they treat. We believe that our partnership with UT Southwestern provides us with a significant advantage to discover, develop and commercialize novel gene therapies.
•
Utilize scalable manufacturing technologies. A critical component of the development of any complex biological therapy, including gene therapies, is the ability to manufacture the therapy efficiently at scale. Through our partnerships with UT Southwestern and Catalent, we have access to GMP manufacturing suites designed for a suspension HEK293 process to produce AAV9, which we believe will enable us to produce material suitable for clinical trials in a cost and time-efficient manner. We believe the capacity offered though our partnerships with Catalent and UT Southwestern will be sufficient to meet the clinical demand for our current pipeline of product candidates. Because we currently utilize the AAV9 capsid across our product portfolio, our product candidates differ primarily by their therapeutic transgene, and we believe that minimal changes to our optimized upstream and downstream processes are expected to be required to manufacture each product candidate. Finally, we have entered into a lease agreement to occupy and configure an approximately 187,000-square-foot commercial-scale cGMP manufacturing facility in Durham, North Carolina, which we expect will meet clinical and commercial demand if our product candidates receive marketing approval. We expect to initiate construction on this facility in 2021.
•
Develop our next-generation platform technologies. In addition to our pipeline of AAV9-based gene therapies, we are actively developing three distinct platform technologies to enable the discovery, development, and rapid translation of new gene therapies: a proprietary technology to allow redosing of AAV-based gene therapies, transgene regulation (miRARE) and novel capsid development.
•
Evaluate strategic opportunities to accelerate development timelines and maximize the value of our product candidate pipeline. We intend to evaluate opportunities to maximize the value of our product candidate pipeline. We believe these structures may provide us with the opportunity to leverage the financial and other resources of partners to advance the development of our product candidate pipeline in key geographies.
Our Approach
Our approach to developing and commercializing gene therapies centers on the use of AAV9 delivered directly to the CSF using intrathecal administration. We manufacture our therapies using a scalable, HEK293 suspension-based process. We believe the combination of AAV9 manufactured in suspension and delivered intrathecally will allow us to advance the development candidates in our product pipeline.
Background on AAV9, Intrathecal Administration and Manufacturing
Since its discovery more than 50 years ago, AAV has been one of the most well studied vectors for the delivery of gene therapies, having been studied in over 250 clinical trials. We utilize AAV9, an AAV serotype with a unique ability to cross the blood-brain barrier and transduce cells of the CNS. AAV9 has been widely characterized across numerous preclinical studies and more than 15 ongoing or completed clinical trials and has a well-characterized biodistribution, safety, tolerability and efficacy profile. In 2019, the FDA approved Zolgensma, the first systemic gene therapy that utilizes AAV9, for the treatment of SMA Type 1 in infants.
Intrathecal administration refers to the injection of a therapy directly into the CSF. The procedure is routinely performed in an outpatient setting and is generally well tolerated. We intend to administer our product candidates intrathecally, as we believe that intrathecal administration confers several advantages for the delivery of gene therapies to the CNS. In comparison to intravenous administration, intrathecal administration allows for a lower dose of the therapy, as the vector is confined to the CNS with limited uptake into off-target tissues. Because the CNS is immune-privileged, intrathecal gene therapy may be administered even in the presence of pre-existing antibodies to AAV. Finally, intrathecally delivered gene therapies have limited exposure to peripheral organs, which enables a higher concentration of vector to be delivered to the diseased tissue of interest. A growing body of literature supports the safety and relevance of lumbar intrathecal injection to deliver AAV9 to the CNS and achieve favorable biodistribution and transgene expression profiles. In comparison to other AAV serotypes, AAV9 administration through lumbar intrathecal injection has been shown to result in superior transduction of multiple cells within the CNS.
We believe that intrathecally delivered AAV9-based gene therapies are more likely to achieve clinical and regulatory success than alternative delivery approaches. A third party is conducting a clinical trial of 32 patients to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of a one-time intrathecal administration of AAV9 delivering a copy of the SMN1 gene for the treatment of SMA Type 2. As of December 2019, a similar tolerability and adverse event profile had been observed in the patients receiving intrathecal delivery as compared to patients receiving intravenous delivery. The same third party has dosed over 600 patients intrathecally or intravenously with this AAV9 therapy and has observed that it has been well tolerated, with durability of up to five years post-dosing. In a third-party clinical trial of patients with CLN6 Batten disease, 12 infant and pediatric patients were dosed with AAV9 delivering CLN6 via intrathecal administration. In this trial, the AAV9 product candidate was well tolerated, with no drug-related adverse events observed. The same third party is currently conducting a clinical trial of an AAV9 product candidate delivering CLN3 via intrathecal administration. Four patients have been dosed to date, with no serious adverse events observed.
We use a scalable production process for our product candidates using a suspension cell culture process in which mammalian HEK293 cells are transiently transfected with plasmid DNA. Our production process, including all process development, product characterization, analytical capabilities and purification techniques, is designed to efficiently scale to support our clinical and commercial development needs. The utilization of the AAV9 capsid across our product portfolio allows us to manufacture each product with minimal changes expected to be required to our optimized upstream and downstream process, since each of our product candidates differ primarily by their therapeutic transgene.
Our Therapeutic Strategy
We design our product candidates based on the underlying biology of the disease target and the characteristics that we believe will result in maximum therapeutic benefit for patients.
Gene replacement therapies. To treat diseases or disorders caused by a missing gene or limited expression of a gene due to loss-of-function mutations, we design our product candidates to replace the gene of interest. In general, these product candidates are comprised of a codon-optimized DNA transgene, or minigene, that encodes the wild type gene of interest, coupled with a promoter selected to ensure expression in the cell or tissue-type of interest.
Regulated gene replacement therapies. In a number of disorders, including Rett syndrome and FOXG1 syndrome, the expression of a therapeutic transgene needs to be regulated. In these disorders, high doses of transgene-expressing vectors may be harmful, while low doses may avoid toxicity but be sub-therapeutic. For disorders that require replacement of dose-sensitive genes, we have combined high-throughput miRNA profiling and genome mining to create miRARE, our novel miRNA target panel. This approach is designed to enable our product candidates to maintain safe transgene expression levels in the brain. Importantly, this built-in regulation system is fully endogenous, and therefore does not require any additional exogenous drug application.
Vectorized miRNA gene therapies. In certain diseases within our pipeline, including Lafora disease, adult polyglucosan body disease or APBD, and tauopathies, the goal of our product candidates is to silence the expression of genes that are involved in or considered to be the root cause of disease onset and progression. To accomplish this, we design transgenes that express miRNA, which are small, non-coding sequences of RNA that result in silencing of gene expression.
Vectorized shRNA gene therapies. In certain diseases such as Prader-Willi syndrome and Angelman syndrome, the goal of our product candidates is to activate a constitutively silenced gene to generate a therapeutic effect under control of the endogenous promoters of the cell. We utilize transgenes that express short-hairpin RNA, or shRNA, which, upon binding to the target of interest, are designed to reactivate a silenced gene.
We design our preclinical studies to be highly translational into clinical trials, including to replicate the timing of dosing at points when the disease model has advanced and the phenotype is more pronounced, include relevant immunosuppressive regimes that are the standard of care for the disease target or commonly administered with gene therapies and use animal models that are reflective of the severity of the human disease. Our goal is to evaluate the safety, efficacy and biodistribution of our product candidates and generate dose-response data that inform our selection of the optimal doses for clinical translation. We believe that our stringent approach to evaluating efficacy in preclinical studies, including in studies in non-human primates, or NHPs, will translate into clinical trials and may be predictive of the clinical effect of our product candidates.
Our Next-Generation Platform Technologies
In addition to our pipeline of AAV9 product candidates, we are building a suite of platforms to develop next-generation technologies that can optimize key components of an AAV-based gene therapy.
Novel Route of Administration to Allow Redosing
We are advancing a novel AAV dosing platform with the potential to facilitate redosing by administering AAV-based gene therapies directly to the vagus nerve. In preclinical studies in adult rats, we observed that AAV9 delivery to the vagus nerve resulted in efficient targeting of the vagal neurons. In preclinical studies in dogs, AAV delivery to the vagus nerve was well tolerated at all doses. Post-mortem analysis showed that vagal nerve fibers and neurons were microscopically normal.
We believe that direct administration of our AAV9 therapies to the vagus nerve could be useful to treat the peripheral and autonomic manifestations of the CNS diseases in our pipeline. We plan to further evaluate the safety and feasibility of this approach in NHPs.
Regulated Transgene Expression Using miRARE
In a number of disorders, including Rett syndrome and FOXG1 syndrome, the expression of a therapeutic transgene needs to be regulated. In these disorders, high doses of transgene-expressing vectors may be harmful, while low doses may avoid toxicity but be sub-therapeutic. For disorders that require replacement of dose-sensitive genes, we have combined high-throughput miRNA profiling and genome mining to create miRARE, our novel miRNA target panel. This approach is designed to enable our product candidates to maintain safe transgene expression levels in the brain. Importantly, this built-in regulation system harnesses endogenous systems, and therefore does not require any additional exogenous drug application.
Novel Capsid Identification
We are developing a novel AAV capsid platform that utilizes machine learning, capsid shuffling and directed evolution to improve targeted delivery. Our approach allows us to identify capsids with improved properties in mice and NHPs in parallel to maximize their translational relevance. We are utilizing single-molecule, real-time, or SMRT, sequencing analysis for high throughput characterization of these capsids.
We believe that our approach will allow us to rapidly identify new capsids to drive new product candidates for CNS disorders with novel biodistribution and transduction profiles into our development pipeline.
Our Product Pipeline
Neurodegenerative Diseases
Our neurodegenerative disease programs target diseases that are characterized by the progressive degeneration of the structures and functions of the CNS. Degeneration and death of neuronal cells causes symptoms ranging from cognitive decline, functional impairment and, ultimately, death. Globally, neurodegenerative diseases represent an immense unmet medical need and disease management is complicated by a lack of effective symptomatic and disease-modifying therapies. Progressive neurodegeneration is a hallmark of numerous severe diseases each characterized by distinct etiology. Common neurodegenerative diseases include Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, SMA and GM2 gangliosidosis.
A Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-101, a neurodegenerative product candidate, for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis was initiated by Queen’s University under a CTA in Canada and Queen’s University expects to report preliminary safety and biomarker data in the second half of 2021 and preliminary clinical data by the end of 2021. We are also developing TSHA-118 for the treatment of CLN1 disease (one of the subtypes of Batten disease), for which we intend to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial in the second half of 2021 under a currently open IND. In addition, we plan to submit an IND / CTA for the treatment of SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome in the second half of 2021 and to initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-104 by the end of 2021. We are developing additional product candidates for the treatment of prevalent neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease and other tauopathies, and rare diseases such as APBD and Lafora disease.
TSHA-101 for the Treatment of GM2 Gangliosidosis
Overview of GM2 Gangliosidosis
GM2 gangliosidosis, which comprises Tay-Sachs disease and Sandhoff disease, refers to a group of lysosomal storage disorders caused by accumulation of the GM2 ganglioside in the lysosomes of cells within the CNS. Gangliosides are lipid components of cell membranes particularly abundant in the plasma membranes of neurons. Accumulation of GM2 ganglioside is caused by a deficiency in the Hex A enzyme, which is responsible for hydrolysis, or breakdown, of the GM2 ganglioside. This accumulation results in lysosomal rupture, leading to a poorly understood inflammatory cascade that leads to neuronal cell death and neurodegeneration. The global incidence of GM2 gangliosidosis is approximately one per 150,000 live births. Approximately 80% to 85% of patients are diagnosed with an infantile form of GM2 gangliosidosis, with the remainder diagnosed with a juvenile or early-adulthood form of the disease. There are no approved therapies for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis, and care is generally palliative. Children diagnosed with GM2 gangliosidosis appear normal at birth but experience rapid neurodegeneration, culminating in death before the age of four, and patients with juvenile GM2 gangliosidosis rarely survive beyond their mid-teens. The estimated prevalence of GM2 gangliosidosis is 500 patients in the United States and European Union.
The Hex A enzyme is a heterodimer composed of two subunits: ß-hexosaminidase a (encoded in humans by the HEXA gene) and ß-hexosaminidase ß (encoded in humans by the HEXB gene). GM2 gangliosidosis caused by a mutation of the HEXA gene is termed Tay-Sachs disease, while Sandhoff disease is caused by a mutation of the HEXB gene. Tay-Sachs disease and Sandhoff disease result in clinically indistinguishable phenotypes for which there is no effective treatment. As illustrated in the graphic below, in GM2 gangliosidosis, its most common and severe form, the disease is characterized by a lack of Hex A enzyme activity, while juvenile GM2 gangliosidosis is characterized by Hex A enzyme activity that is 0.5% to less than 2% of normal activity. Adult-onset GM2 gangliosidosis patients have Hex A enzyme activity levels typically in the range of 2% to 4% of normal Hex A activity and may live a normal lifespan. We believe that the “critical threshold” for normal hydrolysis of GM2 ganglioside is estimated to be 5% to 10% of normal Hex A activity.
We believe that successful gene therapy to treat Tay-Sachs disease or Sandhoff disease requires expression of the α and ß subunits in a 1:1 ratio to ensure that Hex A expression confers a therapeutic benefit. An imbalanced expression of either subunit could result in the formation of a dysfunctional homodimer, or identical proteins, which would limit the efficacy of the therapy. Several therapeutic approaches utilize single vectors encoding either the α or ß subunit, while other approaches have utilized multiple vectors carrying the HEXA and HEXB genes separately. However, these approaches either fail to deliver the Hex A subunits in the appropriate ratio or require the simultaneous transduction of cells to achieve efficacy.
Similar to other lysosomal enzymes, Hex A is ubiquitously expressed and therefore concerns related to off-target effects or overexpression are limited. In addition, Hex A is secreted from transduced cells and can be taken up by neighboring cells to correct their phenotype, making it possible to cure these diseases without the need to transduce every cell, a process referred to as cross-correction.
Studies suggest that restoring Hex A enzyme levels to approximately 10% of normal may result in complete phenotypic absence of the disease.
Our Solution: TSHA-101
We are developing TSHA-101, a neurodegenerative product candidate, for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis. TSHA-101 is a bicistronic, or dual loci of transcription, HEXBP2A- HEXA transgene packaged into an AAV9 vector under the control of the CAG promoter. We have designed TSHA-101 to link the human HEXA and HEXB genes, utilizing a cleavable peptide linker, to ensure that the expression of each the subunit occurs simultaneously at the appropriate 1:1 ratio. This approach is designed to maximize the expression of Hex A enzyme while minimizing the required therapeutic dosage.
Because GM2 gangliosidosis is clinically well defined, we believe we can leverage that knowledge to develop TSHA-101 with a higher probability of clinical and regulatory success. If approved, we believe that TSHA-101 could have a transformational impact on these severely underserved patients and their families. As TSHA-101 is designed to secrete the Hex A enzyme from transduced cells, uptake of the enzyme by neighboring cells via cross-correction has the potential to result in therapeutic benefit independent of their transduction status. In addition, we believe Hex A enzyme activity in the serum and CSF can serve as a potential biomarker to detect and help verify treatment effects on GM2 gangliosidosis during the early stages of clinical development.
We have received orphan drug designation and rare pediatric disease designation from the FDA for TSHA-101 for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis.
Preclinical Studies
In preclinical studies, we observed evidence of improvements in behavioral assays and GM2 ganglioside accumulation across all dose levels of TSHA-101, which we believe supports continued development of TSHA-101. In these studies, TSHA-101 was administered at three dose levels via intrathecal lumbar puncture to a mouse model of Sandhoff disease, selected for its ability to recapitulate the severity of the human disease: a high dose of 2.5 x 1011 vg/mouse, a medium dose of 1.25 x 1011 vg/mouse and a low dose of 0.625 x 1011 vg/mouse. Mice were dosed at six weeks of age and subjected to a battery of behavioral tests when they reached eight weeks of age. At 16 weeks, a cohort of mice were euthanized, at which time GM2 ganglioside accumulation, Hex A enzyme levels and vector biodistribution were evaluated. An additional cohort was followed to a humane long-term endpoint defined as 15% body weight loss or an absent righting reflex.
Across all dose levels, we observed a significant improvement in survival in mice treated with TSHA-101 as compared to mice treated with vehicle alone, as illustrated below. A clear dose-response relationship was observed, with the high dose, medium dose and low dose of TSHA-101 shown to increase survival by 3.4-, 2.3- and 1.5-fold relative to vehicle control, respectively.
A result is considered to be statistically significant when the probability of the result occurring by random chance, rather than from the efficacy of the treatment, is sufficiently low. The conventional method for determining the statistical significance of a result is known as the “p-value,” which represents the probability that random chance caused the result (e.g., a p-value = 0.01 means that there is a 1% probability that the difference between the control group and the treatment group is purely due to random chance). Generally, a p-value less than 0.05 is considered statistically significant.
We observed similar dose-dependent responses in our behavioral assessments of mice in the open field test and rotarod assays, both of which are commonly used tests to evaluate motor coordination in mice, as illustrated below.
At 16 weeks, we performed a GM2 ganglioside assay on the middle section of the brain of mice in all treatment groups. We observed a dose-dependent decrease in ganglioside accumulation, as illustrated below, suggesting a restoration of Hex A enzyme activity.
In preclinical studies designed to evaluate safety, no adverse findings or evidence of toxicity attributable to TSHA-101 were observed. To characterize the safety profile of TSHA-101, wild type mice were intrathecally administered a low dose of TSHA-101 of 2.5 x 1011 vg/mouse or a high dose of 5 x 1011 vg/mouse. The effect of immunosuppressants were also investigated. Mice received daily administration of prednisone and rapamycin, two immunosuppressants commonly used in combination with gene therapies.
At five weeks of age, a cohort of nine mice were euthanized as baseline controls. These mice did not receive gene therapy or immunosuppression. The experimental mice began receiving daily dosages of either 24 µg prednisone and 100 µg rapamycin or a vehicle gavage that continued for the remainder of the study. At six weeks, the experimental mice were administered either a vehicle treatment or TSHA-101 at either the low dose or high dose. Mice continued daily gavaging until their pre-assigned endpoint. Five male and five female mice from the first, second and third cohorts were euthanized at one week, four weeks and three months post-gene therapy injections, respectively. All mice from the fourth cohort were euthanized at four weeks post-gene therapy administration.
Complete blood cell count and biochemistry analyses were performed on whole blood and serum samples. Enzyme-linked immunospot assays were performed on the mice euthanized at four weeks and three months post-injection to assess the immune response of the mice. The biodistribution of the virus was also determined through quantitative polymerase chain reaction.
Clinical Development
In December 2020, Queen’s University received CTA approval from Health Canada for its investigator-sponsored Phase 1/2 clinical trial of TSHA-101 in patients with a confirmed diagnosis of GM2 gangliosidosis. Patients will be evaluated over one year, followed by a longer-term extension period to monitor ongoing safety, developmental progression, select efficacy measures and biomarkers, consistent with other pediatric gene therapy trials. An independent data safety monitoring board will review data from each patient on an ongoing basis to ensure that stopping criteria are not met and monitor the well-being of the patients in the trial. Patients will receive TSHA-101 in a total dose of 5x1014 vg (modified dependent on age and predicted CSF volume) via intrathecal administration. The trial will measure safety and efficacy (including biomarker activity). Efficacy will be evaluated by motor function scales, assessment of head lag as a reflection of head lag, prevention of developmental regression, control of seizure activity and prevention of loss of milestones, as measured by validated scales. Additional measures of efficacy are expected to include plasma and CSF Hex A enzyme activity, GM2 ganglioside reduction and magnetic resonance imaging. Patient quality of life and caretaker burden using appropriate and accepted scales and observer-reported outcomes are also expected to be measured. Queen’s University expects to report preliminary safety and biomarker data in the second half of 2021 and preliminary clinical data by the end of 2021. Following preliminary results from the Queen’s University Phase 1/2 clinical trial, we plan to submit an IND to the FDA in the second half of 2021 to commence a clinical trial for TSHA-101 in the United States in the second half of 2021, which we believe could serve as a pivotal trial to support registration subject to discussions with the FDA.
TSHA-118 (Formerly ABO-202) for the Treatment of CLN1 Disease
Overview of CLN1 Disease
CLN1 disease (one of the forms of Batten disease), a lysosomal storage disorder, is a progressive, fatal neurodegenerative disease with early childhood onset that has an estimated incidence of approximately 1 in 138,000 live births worldwide. The estimated prevalence of CLN1 disease is 900 patients in the United States and European Union. CLN1 disease is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the CLN1 gene that encodes the enzyme palmitoyl-protein thioesterase-1, or PPT1, a small glycoprotein involved in the degradation of certain lipid-modified proteins. Loss of function mutations in the CLN1 gene causes accumulation of these lipid-modified proteins in cells, eventually leading to aggregation, neuronal cellular dysfunction and, ultimately neuronal cell death.
In the infantile-onset form of CLN1 disease, clinical symptoms appear between six to 24 months and include rapid deterioration of speech and motor function, refractory epilepsy, ataxia and visual failure. Infantile-onset CLN1 patients are typically poorly responsive by five years of age and remain noncommunicative until their death, which usually occurs by seven years of age. Late-infantile-onset CLN1 disease begins between two to four years of age with initial visual and cognitive decline followed by the development of ataxia and myoclonus, or quick, involuntary muscle jerks. Juvenile-onset CLN1 disease patients present between the ages of five to ten years old, with vision loss as a first symptom followed by cognitive decline, seizures and motor decline. Approximately 60% of the children diagnosed with CLN1 disease in the United States present with early-onset infantile forms, with the remaining 40% experiencing later-onset childhood forms.
All currently available therapeutic approaches for patients with CLN1 disease are targeted towards the treatment of symptoms, and no disease-modifying therapies have been approved. Gene therapy has shown promise in correcting forms of neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses, or NCL, diseases that involve mutations in soluble enzymes, in part, due to cross-correction of neighboring non-transduced cells.
Our Solution: TSHA-118
We believe that the introduction of a functional CLN1 gene using an AAV9 vector delivered intrathecally to the CNS exposure offers the potential of a disease-modifying therapeutic approach for this disease. TSHA-118 is a self-complementary AAV9 viral vector that expresses human codon-optimized CLN1 complementary deoxyribonucleic acid under control of the chicken ß-actin hybrid promoter. We acquired exclusive worldwide rights to TSHA-118 (formerly ABO-202) in August 2020 pursuant to a license agreement with Abeona Therapeutics Inc., or Abeona.
TSHA-118 has been granted orphan drug designation, rare pediatric disease designation and fast track designation from the FDA and orphan drug designation from the EMA for the treatment of CLN1 disease.
Preclinical Studies
In third-party preclinical studies, evidence of improvements in behavioral outcomes, survival and restoration of PPT1 enzymatic activity was observed, which we believe supports continued development of TSHA-118. In these studies, TSHA-118 was administered at a dose of 7.0 x 1011 vg/mouse via intrathecal lumbar puncture to a mouse model of CLN1 disease, selected for its ability to recapitulate the severity of the human disease. The results from this study showed that intrathecal treatment with TSHA-118 significantly extended survival of CLN1 knockout mice, with enhanced survival and behavioral outcomes correlating with treatment at younger ages and higher doses.
As illustrated in the figure below, mice treated with TSHA-118 at four weeks or twelve weeks of age had a mean survival of 18.7 or 16.7 months, respectively, compared to approximately 8 months survival for untreated CLN1 knockout mice.
PPT1 enzyme activity in serum was measured at selected timepoints following TSHA-118 delivery by intrathecal administration at four, twenty or twenty-six weeks of age. Serum was collected either at four months post-treatment or at the humane endpoint.
As shown in the figure below, heterozygous mice had roughly 30% of normal serum PPT1 activity compared to wild-type mice. In contrast, treatment of CLN1 knockout mice with TSHA-118 resulted in supraphysiological levels of active PPT1 in the serum in comparison to wild-type and heterozygous mice.
Clinical Development
We expect to initiate a global Phase 1/2 dose-escalation and expansion trial subject to feedback from applicable regulatory agencies in the second half of 2021. The trial is expected to enroll up to 18 patients, including patients with classic infantile onset, late infantile onset and juvenile forms of CLN1 disease. We will conduct the trial in the United States following an amendment to the currently open IND that Abeona transferred to us. A data monitoring committee will review safety information from the first patient dosed in each cohort before the second participant from that cohort can be enrolled and will also be involved in overall safety review and safety management in the trial.
We expect that the key endpoints in the trial will include: safety and tolerability; developmental milestones; PPT1 enzyme activity in the serum and CSF; change in clinical progression as measured by the Unified Batten Disease Rating Scale, Hamburg Scale; changes in a number of other developmental scales, including the Vineland Adaptive Behavior Scales-Third Edition, Bayley Scales of Infant and Toddler Development; seizure frequency, type and medication; ophthalmological assessment; quality of life and caregiver burden; and changes in MRI, including volumetric changes of the brain
Additional Neurodegenerative Programs
TSHA-104 for SURF1-Associated Leigh Syndrome
We are developing TSHA-104, a neurodegenerative product candidate, for the treatment of SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome. The SURF1 gene encodes the SURF1 protein, which plays a critical role in mitochondrial translation and is involved in the assembly of the cytochrome c oxidase complex. Mutations in SURF1 lead to SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome, a recessively inherited mitochondrial disease, and are the most frequent cause of Leigh syndrome, a rapidly progressive neurological condition characterized by the degeneration of the CNS. To date over 100 SURF1 mutations, including non-sense, frame shift and missense variants have been described in literature. The incidence of SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome is estimated to be approximately 1 in 100,000 live births. The estimated prevalence of SURF1 deficiency is 300 to 400 patients in the United States and European Union.
SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome can lead to difficulty swallowing in infancy, with subsequent failure to thrive. Severely diseased muscle tone leading to respiratory failure, movement disorders and balance abnormalities are common. According to the literature, only a few patients have been reported to survive beyond 10 years of age. In the majority of SURF1-deficient patients, serum lactate is elevated, and elevated levels of serum lactate have been reported in the CSF as well, indicative of mitochondrial dysfunction. We are pursuing a gene replacement strategy with the goal of restoring mitochondrial function in patients with SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome caused by loss-of-function mutations.
We are constructing TSHA-104 from a codon-optimized version of the human SURF1 gene packaged within a self-complementary AAV9 viral vector under the control of a CBh promoter. We plan to submit an IND / CTA for TSHA-104 in the second half of 2021 and initiate a Phase 1/2 clinical trial by the end of 2021.
We have received orphan drug designation and rare pediatric disease designation from the FDA for TSHA-104 for the treatment of SURF1-associated Leigh Syndrome.
Preclinical Studies
Data from preclinical studies suggest that functional gene replacement strategy could restore mitochondrial functions in SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome caused by SURF1 loss-of-function mutations, which we believe supports continued development of TSHA-104. In these studies, TSHA-104 was administered at two dose levels via intrathecal lumbar puncture to a knock-out mouse model of
SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome. Intrathecal treatment with TSHA-104 was observed to be well tolerated. TSHA-104 also induced SURF1 expression in the brain and partially rescued COX activity in a tissue specific manner as shown below.
As shown below, TSHA-104 restored elevation of blood lactate on exhaustive exercise in the SURF1 knock-out mice.
TSHA-112 for Adult Polyglucosan Body Disease
We are developing TSHA-112 for the treatment of APBD. APBD is caused by reduced glycogen branching enzyme, or GBE1, activity. GBE1 is responsible for the creation of branches during glycogen synthesis and reduced GBE1 activity results in elongated glycogen changes that form poorly soluble aggregates (polyglucosan bodies) in the liver, muscle and CNS. Symptoms of APBD include sensory loss in the legs, progressive muscle weakness, gait disturbances, urinary difficulties and mild cognitive impairment. APBD is a late onset, prime of life disease with an age of onset between 40 to 50 years. The prevalence of APBD is unknown, but we estimate it is approximately 10,000 patients in the United States and European Union.
We are developing TSHA-112 as an AAV9 viral vector with miRNA targeting the knockdown of the GYS1 gene to treat APBD.
Preclinical Studies
In preclinical studies, miRNA knockdown of GYS1 induced structural reduction of polyglucosan bodies as shown below.
In addition, TSHA-112 demonstrated decreases in polyglucosan body formation in mice hippocampus as shown below.
TSHA-111 (TSHA-111-LAFORIN for EPM2A and TSHA-111-MALIN for EPM2B) for Lafora Disease
We are developing TSHA-111-LAFORIN and TSHA-111-MALIN for the treatment of Lafora EPM2A and Lafora EPM2B disease, respectively, which are fatal glycogen storage disorders. Lafora disease starts in adolescents, usually with myoclonus, or involuntary muscle jerks, that rapidly evolve into progressive dementia, refractory epilepsy, cerebellar ataxia and respiratory failure, and generally results in death within about a decade. The epidemiology of Lafora disease is unknown although estimates suggest a prevalence of approximately 1 in 250,000 individuals worldwide. The estimated prevalence of Lafora disease is 700 patients in the United States and European Union. Currently, there is no treatment available for Lafora disease.
Lafora disease is caused by loss of function mutations in EPM2A or EPM2B genes, which encode the glycogen phosphatase Laforin or the E3 ubiquitin ligase Malin, respectively. Both Laforin and Malin are involved in the formation of regulating glycogen metabolism and the absence of either protein results in poorly branched cytoplasmic inclusions, known as Lafora bodies. Studies indicate that these inclusions are the primary driver of neurodegeneration and other brain abnormalities associated with Lafora disease.
We are developing TSHA-111-LAFORIN and TSHA-111-MALIN as AAV9 viral vectors with miRNA targeting the knockdown of GYS1.
Preclinical Studies
In preclinical studies, TSHA-111-LAFORIN achieved effective knockdown of GYS1 expression in the Lafora disease laforin mouse model. In addition, TSHA-111-LAFORIN reduced insoluble glycogen in ground brain tissue in the laforin mouse model as shown below.
In preclinical studies, TSHA-111-MALIN achieved effective knockdown of GYS1 expression in the Lafora disease malin mouse model. In addition, TSHA-111-MALIN reduced insoluble glycogen in ground brain tissue in the malin mouse model as shown below.
In preclinical studies, TSHA-111-LAFORIN and TSHA-111-MALIN decreased Lafora body formation in mice brain in the laforin and malin mouse models as shown below.
TSHA-119 for GM2 AB Variant
We are developing TSHA-119 for the treatment of GM2 AB variant.
Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff disease are caused by mutations in ß-hexosaminidase α (encoded in humans by the HEXA gene) and ß-hexosaminidase ß (encoded in humans by the HEXB gene), respectively. GM2 AB variant is caused by deficiency of the GM2 activator protein (GM2AP). GM2AP is a protein that works in tandem with the β-hexosaminidase enzyme to degrade and prevent toxic accumulation of GM2 ganglioside in the lysosome of the cell. Loss-of-function mutations result in a deficiency of GM2AP causing intra-lysosomal accumulation of GM2 and other glycolipids in neuronal cells ultimately resulting in cell death. In patients with AB variant, Hex A levels are normal and phenotypically, AB variant is indistinguishable from Tay-Sachs and Sandhoff disease.
In preclinical studies, Gm2a knockout mice, which develop abnormal brain histomorphology as well as slight impaired motor activity, were utilized to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and tolerability of TSHA-119. Mice were treated by intrathecal injection of TSHA-119 at postnatal day 1 (PND 1) or at 6 weeks of age at two different doses; a low dose or a high dose.
A significant reduction in GM2 ganglioside was evident in the mid-section of the brain in both the low dose and high dose cohorts, demonstrating a dose-dependent reduction of GM2 gangliosides as shown in the figure below. Long-term follow up studies which include bi-monthly behavioral as well as biochemical and histological analysis are currently underway.
In preclinical studies, TSHA-119 caused a dose-dependent reduction of GM2 accumulation in mice as shown below.
TSHA-113 for Tauopathies
We are developing TSHA-113 for the treatment of tauopathies. Tau accumulation predicts neurodegeneration in Alzheimer’s disease, and the propagation of tau aggregates is thought to mediate the progression of several neurodegenerative diseases, including progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, behavioral variant frontotemporal degeneration, chronic traumatic encephalopathy, frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17.
As a result, multiple strategies are currently being tested to reduce tau and ameliorate the effects of these diseases. Preclinical studies testing tau anti-sense oligonucleotides, or ASOs, in the PS19 tauopathy mouse model prevented neuronal loss and showed a reversal of pathological tau deposition and seeding. This treatment in being tested in clinical trials. While promising, ASOs only reduced tau protein levels by approximately 50% in mice, and they required repeated, life-long intrathecal administration to reach this maximum effect.
We are developing TSHA-113 to utilize AAV-mediated gene silencing to deliver life-long reduction of tau protein levels in neurons following administration of a single dose. We are developing tau-specific miRNA shuttles that have been designed to target mRNA for all six isoforms of tau found in the human brain and/or mouse brain. Our preliminary data in cells has shown that our tau
miRNA selectively reduced some human and mouse tau expression in vitro and we have packaged our miRNA shuttles in AAV9 capsids for further evaluation in mouse models of human tauopathies.
TSHA-115 for Glycogen Storage Diseases
We are developing TSHA-115 for the treatment of glycogen storage diseases. TSHA-115 is designed to utilize a miRNA approach to knockdown GYS1, thereby inhibiting glycogen synthase in the brain. We believe this approach will provide therapeutic utility in not only Lafora disease or APBD, but potentially other glycogen storage diseases as well.
Our preliminary data show that RNA interference-mediated silencing of GYS1 messenger RNA, or mRNA, provided therapeutic benefit in mouse models of Lafora and APBD by decreasing abnormal glycogen formation in the brain.
We plan to expand the development of the GYS1 miRNA knockdown approach into additional glycogen storage disorders. TSHA-115 has achieved animal proof-of-concept in three distinct animal models for laforin, malin, and glycogen branching enzyme, or GBE.
Neurodevelopmental Disorders
Neurodevelopmental disorders are a group of conditions whose age of onset occurs during the time when the brain is developing, typically between infancy and adolescence. Neurodevelopmental disorders can manifest as difficulties with language, speech and communication, motor skills, behavior, memory, learning and other neurological functions. The range of developmental deficits varies from very specific limitations of learning or control of executive functions to severe global impairments of social skills, intelligence and motor functioning.
The treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders is tailored towards symptom management and administered by an interdisciplinary team of neurologists, clinical psychologists, cognitive therapists, speech and language experts, behavioral therapists, and other specialists. Pharmacological interventions include but are not limited to typical and atypical antipsychotics, antiepileptic drugs, antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications.
We are developing TSHA-102, a neurodevelopmental product candidate, for the treatment of Rett syndrome. We are also developing product candidates for the treatment of other neurodevelopmental disorders, including Angelman syndrome, Fragile X syndrome, Prader-Willi syndrome and FOXG1 syndrome.
TSHA-102 for the Treatment of Rett Syndrome
Overview of Rett Syndrome
Rett syndrome is one of the most common genetic causes of severe intellectual disability worldwide with an incidence rate of one in every 10,000 live female births. The estimated prevalence of Rett syndrome is 25,000 patients in the United States and European Union. After a period of normal development, girls with Rett syndrome experience rapid developmental regression characterized by a loss of speech and motor control. Cognitive and intellectual disabilities are common, as is dysfunction of the autonomic nervous system, or ANS, resulting in breathing, cardiovascular, and gastrointestinal abnormalities. Approximately 95% of Rett syndrome patients are females carrying heterozygous loss-of-function mutations in MECP2, a gene encoding methyl CpG-binding protein that is essential for neuronal and synaptic function in the brain.
Currently, there is no cure for Rett syndrome and available treatments for Rett syndrome are mainly to address symptoms. The primary focus of symptomatic therapy is ensuring that patients have access to the appropriate care specialists along with access to occupational therapy, speech therapy and physiotherapy. Sodium valproate, lamotrigine, levetiracetam, carbamazepine and clobazam are commonly prescribed to control seizures. There is a sudden death rate of 26% in Rett syndrome and patients mainly perish due to cardiac complications, respiratory infection and respiratory failure.
In February 2007, Sir Adrian Bird, Ph.D., a Professor of Genetics at the University of Edinburgh, published a seminal paper demonstrating the reversibility of symptoms associated with Rett syndrome in mice. This work suggested for the first time that neurological damage caused by the absence of MECP2 may be reversible in children and adults with Rett syndrome. To demonstrate the ability to reverse the onset of Rett syndrome, researchers in the Bird lab generated mouse models in which MECP2 expression was conditionally silenced, which resulted in neurological and behavioral deficits that mirrored those seen in patients diagnosed with Rett syndrome. Upon reactivation of the MECP2 gene, behavioral deficits were restored, and electrophysiological function was also returned to levels seen in wild type mice. These findings represented a landmark moment for the field and provided evidence that it may be possible to not only halt the symptoms of Rett syndrome, but to potentially reverse the course of the disease.
Several peer-reviewed publications have subsequently explored the safety and efficacy of AAV-based gene therapy for the treatment of Rett syndrome, including in preclinical studies that showed that delivery of MECP2 and, more recently, miniMECP2, extended the survival of MECP2 knockout mice, a commonly used mouse model that recapitulates the symptoms of Rett syndrome. However, AAV delivery of MECP2 or miniMECP2 resulted in dose-dependent toxicity in wild type and MECP2 knock out mice. Given the underlying biology of the disease, there is consensus among researchers that toxicity in these models is most likely linked to unregulated expression of MECP2 or miniMECP2. This overexpression of MECP2 is seen in the clinic in patients with a condition known as MECP2 duplication syndrome, where elevated levels of MECP2 result in a clinical phenotype similar to Rett syndrome both in terms of symptoms and severity.
Our Solution: TSHA-102
We are developing TSHA-102, a neurodevelopmental product candidate, for the treatment of Rett syndrome. In order to develop an effective therapy for Rett syndrome, MECP2 expression needs to be titrated to correct the MECP2 deficiency while avoiding side effects associated with toxic overexpression.
MECP2 is a transcription factor within the cell that regulates many other genes involved in neurodevelopmental function. Levels of MECP2 are regulated within the cell endogenously by a number of different miRNAs. We utilized this natural regulatory phenomenon to develop miRARE, our miRNA target panel. miRARE binds those endogenous miRNA species whose expression levels are upregulated as a result of exogenous MECP2 protein expression. When miRARE is incorporated into the 3’ untranslated region of our expression cassette, it functions as a mechanism to permit therapeutic expression of MECP2 while buffering against toxic overexpression, as shown in the figure below.
TSHA-102 is constructed from a neuronal specific promoter, MeP426, coupled with the miniMECP2 transgene and our miRARE panel packaged in self-complementary AAV9.
We have received orphan drug designation and rare pediatric disease designation from the FDA for TSHA-102 for the treatment of Rett syndrome.
Preclinical Studies
In preclinical studies, we observed that TSHA-102 had a favorable tolerability profile and increased survival in a wild type mice model. In these studies, wild type mice were treated with low doses of 1 x 1011 vg or high doses of 1 x 1012 of either unregulated AAV9/MECP2, unregulated AAV9/miniMECP2 or TSHA-102 at four to five weeks of age. Mice treated with the high dose of unregulated constructs experienced early lethality, while the low dose unregulated constructs were similar to vehicle. Mice treated with TSHA-102 had no deaths associated with treatment, as shown in the figure below.
MECP2 dose-dependent side effects, leading to an increase in the aggregate score of a well-recognized, validated Rett behavioral assessment tool used in mice, were observed in the cohorts treated with unregulated AAV9/MECP2 or AAV9/miniMECP2, as shown in the figure below. This increase in aggregate score is a reflection of overexpression of MECP2 causing Rett-like symptoms in these mice, as is seen in MECP2 duplication syndrome. In contrast, TSHA-102 was well tolerated and aggregate scores were similar to those of mice treated with vehicle only. This aggregate scale includes six sub-scales for abnormal mobility, abnormal gait, hindlimb clasping, tremors, abnormal breathing and abnormal general appearance. Sub-scales were each assessed on a scale of 0 to 12, with 12 being the maximum aggregate score attainable. Scorers were blind to treatment and genotype, and lower scores indicate better tolerability.
In MECP2 knockout mice, unregulated AAV9/miniMECP2 failed to extend survival at either dose tested. In contrast, TSHA-102 dosed at 1x1012 vg/mouse extended survival by 56%. Importantly, although there is a strong trend toward increased survival in mice treated with AAV9/MECP2, studies in wild type mice showed unacceptable toxicity with this vector design at this dose.
We observed TSHA-102 to be well tolerated, with no behavioral abnormalities or other side effects associated with MECP2 overexpression. We evaluated the safety of TSHA-102 in wild type mice following intrathecal administration. While AAV9/MECP2 and AAV9/miniMECP2 caused dose-responsive reductions in weight, weight reduction was not observed in mice treated with TSHA-102. In addition, no tail lesions were observed among mice treated with TSHA-102. In contrast, lesions were observed in 8% to 17% of wild type mice treated with unregulated AAV9/miniMECP2 and 8% of mice treated with unregulated AAV9/MECP2.
Clinical Development
Following the completion of Good Laboratory Practice, or GLP, toxicology studies in NHPs and the completion of additional preclinical studies, we intend to submit an IND / CTA for TSHA-102 for Rett syndrome in the second half of 2021 and initiate a clinical trial by the end of 2021. In clinical trials, we intend to evaluate safety, tolerability and efficacy utilizing multiple clinical scales and clinical assessments. Breathing disorders are reported in over 66% of patients with Rett syndrome, often leading to sleep disorders. Patients hyperventilate, hold their breath and have apneic episodes, leading to poor sleep quality. Accordingly, we plan to measure both sleep quality and breathing in our clinical trials. In addition, epilepsy is reported in over 60% of patients with Rett syndrome and likely will serve as a secondary efficacy endpoint in our trials.
Additional Neurodevelopmental Programs
TSHA-106 for Angelman Syndrome
We are developing TSHA-106 for the treatment of Angelman syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by a maternal deficiency of the UBE3A gene. Angelman syndrome is characterized by profound developmental delay, ataxia and gait disturbance, sleep disorder, seizures, heightened anxiety and aggression and severe speech impairments. Angelman syndrome affects approximately one per 12,000 to 20,000 patients worldwide. The estimated prevalence of Angelman syndrome is 55,000 patients in the United States and European Union.
Angelman syndrome is an imprinting disorder in which the maternal gene is deficient and the paternal copy of UBE3A is intact but silenced by a long non-coding RNA, UBE3A antisense transcript, or UBE3A-ATS. Delivery of an ASO targeting UBE3A-ATS showed promising results in ameliorating Angelman syndrome symptoms in a transgenic mouse model.
We are developing TSHA-106 to target the UBE3A-ATS transcript through shRNA knock-down with an AAV-based strategy in order to achieve broad distribution of the shRNA expression cassette across the entire CNS following a single intrathecal dose.
TSHA-114 for Fragile X Syndrome
We are developing TSHA-114 for the treatment of Fragile X syndrome, the most common single gene cause of autism and cognitive impairment, affecting about one in 6,000 individuals worldwide. The estimated prevalence of Fragile X syndrome is 100,000 patients in the United States and European Union. Fragile X syndrome is diagnosed around three years of age and characterized by anxiety, aggression, hyperactivity, attention deficits and sleep and communication disruption.
Fragile X syndrome is caused by a pathological expansion of a CGG triplet repeat in the 5’ untranslated region of the FMR1 gene. Expansion of the triplet above the normal 5-55 repeats to 200 or more causes hypermethylation of the gene promoter, and shutdown of transcription and translation of the encoded protein, fragile X mental retardation protein, or FMRP. The expanded repeat also induces formation of RNA: DNA heteroduplexes that induces epigenetic gene silencing. Although most patients with Fragile X syndrome do not express FMRP, some individuals with the full mutation produce low amounts of the protein (less than 10% of normal levels). FMRP expression in unaffected persons varies greatly from person to person. Current pharmacotherapeutic treatments for Fragile X syndrome are solely directed towards symptom relief.
We are developing TSHA-114 using truncated promoters that mimic the natural developmental expression of FMRP. In addition, we have selected to express a human FMRP isoform to ensure that FMRP expression is appropriately localized to the cytosol, axon, nerve terminals, and nucleus in the proper ratios.
TSHA-116 for Prader-Willi Syndrome
We are developing TSHA-116 for the treatment of Prader-Willi syndrome, a genetic disorder caused by paternal loss-of-function of genes along 15q11-q13 chromosomal region, or PWS genes, due to an imprinting defect. The prevalence of Prader-Willi syndrome is estimated to be approximately one per 10,000 to 30,000 persons. The estimated prevalence of Prader-Willi syndrome is 40,000 patients in the United States and European Union. During infancy, patients with Prader-Willi syndrome have feeding difficulties, poor growth and weak muscle tone. As the patient begins to age, their appetite becomes insatiable, resulting in obesity and type 2 diabetes. In addition, patients typically have mild to moderate intellectual disabilities, behavioral issues and sleep abnormalities.
In patients, with Prader-Willi syndrome, the maternal genes are intact but silenced by epigenetic regulation, or the modulation of gene expression. Epigenetic regulation is accomplished by the euchromatic histone lysine N-methyltransferase-2, or EHMT2, gene.
We are developing TSHA-116 to restore gene function through reactivation of the silenced maternal genes. To accomplish this, we are designing vectors to target EHMT2 through shRNA knock-down and reduced levels of EHMT2, which would in turn activate the silenced PWS gene.
TSHA-117 for FOXG1 Syndrome
We are developing TSHA-117 for the treatment of FOXG1 syndrome. FOXG1 syndrome is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by pathogenic mutations in the FOXG1 gene. The symptoms of FOXG1 syndrome include severe developmental and intellectual disabilities, growth restriction with microcephaly, epilepsy and hyperkinetic-dyskinetic movement disorder. The incidence rate is estimated to be one per 30,000 live births. The estimated prevalence of FOXG1 is 20,000 patients in the United States and European Union. The number of identified patients is expected to steadily increase as more children are tested for Autism Spectrum Disorder and other genetic disorders. Currently, there are no specific therapies for FOXG1 syndrome and medical management of the disease is largely focused on symptomatic relief.
The literature suggests that dosage of the FOXG1 gene needs to be regulated to avoid off-target expression or overexpression of FOXG1.
We are developing TSHA-117 using our miRARE panel to regulate FOXG1 expression levels.
TSHA-107 for an Autism Spectrum Disorder, TSHA-108 for an Inborn Error of Metabolism and TSHA-109 for an Inherited Metabolic Disorder
We are also developing the following product candidates for the treatment of neurodevelopmental disorders. We are developing TSHA-107 for the treatment of an autism spectrum disorder associated with an increased risk of epilepsy, for which there is currently no therapeutic option. We are developing TSHA-108 for the treatment of an inborn error of metabolism associated with intellectual disability, prominent speech and language delay, autistic behaviors and seizures. We are developing TSHA-109 for a rare, inherited metabolic disorder that, if untreated, results in speech deficits, ataxia, learning disabilities and other neurological complications. We are constructing each of these product candidates from a codon-optimized version of the applicable gene packaged within a self-complementary AAV9 viral vector.
Genetic Epilepsies
Our genetic epilepsy category targets disorders with recurrent seizures associated with abnormal development of the brain. In children with early-onset epilepsy, the detrimental effects of uncontrolled seizures are often associated with, and may be responsible for, the neurodevelopmental disabilities that often appear subsequent to the onset of seizures. A number of childhood-onset epilepsies are caused by mutations in a single gene and represent a compelling target for gene therapy. The goal of our product candidates is to target the underlying cause of the disease to simultaneously control seizures and treat any associated developmental comorbidities.
We are developing TSHA-103, a genetic epilepsy product candidate, for the treatment of SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder. We are also developing TSHA-105 for the treatment of SLC13A5 deficiency and TSHA-110 for the treatment of KCNQ2-related disorders.
TSHA-103 for SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder
Overview of SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder
SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder is caused by loss-of-function mutations in the SLC6A1 gene. Loss of-function mutations in the SLC6A1 gene have been identified as one of the most common monogenic causes of epilepsy with myoclonic atonic seizures, or brief and abrupt seizures followed by loss of muscle strength, as well as autism spectrum disorder and intellectual disability.
Patients diagnosed with SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder typically present with developmental delay, varying degrees of intellectual disability, seizures and abnormal EEG characterized by generalized spike-wave discharges. Most patients are refractory to pharmacological seizure control although a portion of patients become seizure free during the course of disease progression. Importantly, seizure control is not associated with improved cognitive outcomes, which highlights the complexity of the disease as well as the need for novel therapies directed at its underlying pathology.
Approximately 81% of patients with SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder have epilepsy, with typical absence seizures, which are abrupt and followed by lack of awareness, being the predominant form observed. In addition, 91% of individuals exhibit developmental delays, with more than 80% characterized as mild or moderate intellectual disability. Ataxia, or tremors, is present in approximately 29% of individuals, while autism or autistic features are observed in approximately 24% of individuals diagnosed with SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder.
The SLC6A1 gene encodes the gamma-aminobutyric acid, or GABA, transporter 1, or GAT1. GAT1 is a voltage-dependent transporter responsible for the reuptake of GABA, a non-protein amino acid that is well characterized for its role as a major inhibitory neurotransmitter within the mammalian CNS. GAT1 plays a critical role in the reuptake of GABA from neuronal synapses and extracellular spaces and as a result, a critical role in balancing neuronal excitations. When GABA transport is disrupted, brain development is negatively impacted resulting in deficits in attention and cognition as well as seizures.
The exact incidence and prevalence of SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder is unknown but we believe the estimated prevalence is 17,000 patients in the United States and European Union. According to recently published data, the incidence of SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder is approximately 1 in 36,000 live births. We believe that SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder is underdiagnosed as the underlying biology was only recently elucidated and the gene had not been part of commercially available genetic epilepsy screening panels. Clinician education and expanded use of genetic screening panels that include SLC6A1 will likely lead to increased identification of individuals with these mutations.
Our Solution: TSHA-103
We are developing TSHA-103, a genetic epilepsy product candidate, for the treatment of SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder. TSHA-103 is a gene replacement therapy constructed from a codon-optimized version of the human SLC6A1 gene packaged within a self-complementary AAV9 viral vector under the control of a JeT promoter. We are currently conducting preclinical studies of TSHA-103.
We have received orphan drug designation and rare pediatric disease designation from the FDA for TSHA-103 for the treatment of epilepsy caused by SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder.
Additional Genetic Epilepsy Programs
TSHA-105 for SLC13A5 Deficiency
We are developing TSHA-105 for the treatment of SLC13A5 deficiency, a rare autosomal recessive epileptic encephalopathy characterized by the onset of seizures within the first few days of life. The estimated prevalence of SLC13A5 deficiency is 1,900 patients in the United States and European Union. Affected children have impairments in gross motor function and speech production with relative preservation of fine motor skills and receptive speech. SLC13A5 deficiency is caused by bi-allelic loss-of function mutations in the SLC13A5 gene, which codes for a sodium dependent citrate transporter, or NaCT, that is largely expressed in the brain and liver. To date, all tested mutations result in no or a greatly reduced amount of the citrate in the cells.
Diminished NaCT function leads to loss of neuronal uptake of citrate and other metabolites such as succinate that are critical to brain energy metabolism and function. Currently, there are no approved therapies for SLC13A5 deficiency, and treatment is largely to address symptoms.
We are developing TSHA-105 as a gene replacement therapy for SLC13A5 deficiency. TSHA-105 is constructed from a codon-optimized human SLC13A5 gene packaged in a self-complementary AAV9 capsid.
We have received orphan drug designation and rare pediatric disease designation from the FDA for TSHA-105 for the treatment of epilepsy caused by caused by SLC13A5 deficiency.
Preclinical Studies
In preliminary safety studies conducted in wildtype mice, vehicle or TSHA-105 was administered via CSF delivery. Weight and survival in the control and treatment group were the same and no overt toxicities were observed for up to one-year post-treatment.
Studies to evaluate TSHA-105 were conducted using SLC13A5 knockout mice. In comparison to age-matched, wildtype controls, SLC13A5 knockout mice exhibit altered citrate metabolism along with abnormal EEG activity and increased seizure susceptibility. At 3 months of age, SLC13A5 knockout mice were treated with TSHA-105 via CSF delivery. Administration of TSHA-105 resulted in a significant, sustainable decrease of plasma citrate levels up to 3-months post-injection, as shown below.
In addition, in ongoing EEG studies, TSHA-105 normalized EEG activity and decreased the number of seizures in knockout mice in comparison vehicle-treated controls as shown below.
TSHA-110 for KCNQ2 Developmental & Epileptic Encephalopathy
We have an exclusive option from UT Southwestern to develop TSHA-110 for the treatment of KCNQ2 Developmental and Epileptic Encephalopathy, or KCNQ2. Patients with KCNQ2 typically present with seizures in the first week of life. Seizures appear as tonic, or with stiffening of the body, often associated with jerking and changes in breathing or heart rate. These seizures often resolve within months to years but children have some degree of developmental impairment involving one or more domains (motor, social, language, cognition). There is wide variability in the symptoms of patients with a KCNQ2 diagnosis. Some have very limited, or no noticeable seizure activity and the developmental impairment can range from mild to severe, depending on a number of different factors. Some children may also have autistic features or other comorbidities. The incidence of KCNQ2 is approximately 1 in 35,000 live births. The estimated prevalence in KCNQ2 developmental and epileptic encephalopathy is 37,000 patients in the United States and European Union.
We plan to exercise the option to acquire rights to TSHA-110 from UT Southwestern, following which we expect to develop TSHA-110 as a KCNQ2 transgene packaged within an AAV9 vector.
Our Next-Generation Platform Technologies
In addition to our AAV9 candidates, we are building a suite of platforms to develop next-generation technologies that can optimize key components of an AAV-based gene therapy as part of our strategy to develop a sustainable pipeline of product candidates and a consistent stream of new commercial product launches.
Novel Route of Administration to Allow Redosing
We are advancing a novel AAV dosing platform with the potential to facilitate redosing by administering AAV-based gene therapies directly to the vagus nerve. The development of AAV-neutralizing antibodies after administration of an initial dose has historically presented a challenge in the ability to redose patients with gene therapies. In preclinical studies in adult rats, we observed that AAV9 delivery to the vagus nerve resulted in efficient targeting of the vagal neurons in the ANS. We subsequently performed experiments to assess the feasibility of targeting genes to ANS neurons in rats already treated with an intrathecal injection of AAV9. Rats were immunized with AAV9 by an intrathecal injection of AAV9/GAN and then received a direct vagus nerve injection with AAV9/GFP either four or fourteen weeks after the intrathecal injection. AAV9-immunized rats had efficient green fluorescent protein, or GFP, transduction in vagal nerve fibers and neurons. There was no evidence of neuroinflammation or significant chronic inflammatory infiltrates.
In preclinical studies in dogs, adult hounds received a direct vagus nerve injection of increasing volumes of vehicle and were allowed to recover for two weeks. AAV delivery to the vagus nerve was well tolerated at all doses. Vocalization, weight, eating and fecal output were monitored pre- and post-surgery, and post-mortem analysis showed that vagal nerve fibers and neurons were microscopically normal.
We plan to further evaluate the safety and feasibility of this approach in NHPs.
Regulated Transgene Expression Using miRARE
In a number of disorders, including Rett syndrome and FOXG1 syndrome, the expression of a therapeutic transgene needs to be regulated. In these disorders, high doses of transgene-expressing vectors may be harmful, while low doses may avoid toxicity but be sub-therapeutic. For disorders that require replacement of dose-sensitive genes, we have combined high-throughput miRNA profiling and genome mining to create miRARE, our novel miRNA target panel. This approach is designed to enable our product candidates to maintain safe transgene expression levels in the brain. Importantly, this built-in regulation system is fully endogenous, and therefore does not require any additional exogenous drug application. Instead, the miRARE system utilizes endogenous transgene-responsive miRNA to downregulate transgene expression in the event that overexpression occurs. While our initial intent is to utilize our miRARE panel to develop gene replacement therapies for Rett syndrome and FOXG1 syndrome, we believe the system may be applicable to a number of other dose-sensitive genes.
Novel Capsid Identification
Successful clinical translation of gene therapies depends upon efficient transgene delivery and expression across the entire CNS. Directed evolution is a powerful and proven method to develop novel AAV vector capsids that exhibit properties distinct from naturally occurring serotypes. However, to date, most novel capsids have been derived in rodents or in vitro models whose properties may or may not translate to other species, in particular primates.
We have developed a new approach that utilizes AAV whole capsid shuffling and directed evolution, combined with machine learning techniques, to develop novel AAV capsids in mice and NHPs in parallel. We are utilizing SMRT sequencing analysis for a high throughput evaluation of recovered whole AAV capsid genes. SMRT sequencing has the advantage of sequencing the entire capsid gene in a single read with high accuracy, enabling sequencing the entire shuffled capsid rather than only an insert region or barcode.
We believe that our approach will allow us to rapidly identify new capsids for the treatment of CNS disorders and drive new product candidates with novel biodistribution and transduction profiles into our development pipeline.
Competition
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly changing technologies, significant competition and a strong emphasis on intellectual property. This is also true for the development and commercialization of treatments for neurodegenerative diseases, neurodevelopmental disorders and genetic epilepsies, and broadly across gene therapies. While we believe that our focus, strength of team, expertise in gene therapy, scientific knowledge and intellectual property provide us with competitive advantages, we face competition from several different sources, including large and small biopharmaceutical companies, academic research institutions, government agencies and public and private research institutions. Not only must we compete with other companies that are focused on gene transfer technology, but any product candidates that we successfully develop and commercialize will compete with existing therapies and new therapies that may become available in the future.
Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, clinical trials, regulatory approvals and product marketing than we do. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to, or necessary for, our programs. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies.
The majority of our programs face limited competition as there are no approved disease-modifying therapies for the treatment of the GM2 gangliosidosis, CLN1 disease, Rett syndrome, SLC6A1 haploinsufficiency disorder, SURF1-associated Leigh syndrome, SLC13A5 disorder, Fragile X syndrome, Angelman syndrome or the other development programs in our pipeline.
Sio Gene Therapies is developing AXO-AAV-GM2 for the treatment of GM2 gangliosidosis. AXO-AAV-GM2 delivers two AAVrh8 vectors, each encoding either HEXA or HEXB genes, directly to the CNS with the intention of producing functioning ß-hexosaminidase.
Amicus, in collaboration with Nationwide Children’s Hospital, is developing a gene therapy candidate for CLN1 disease that is currently in discovery stage.
Novartis, through its acquisition of AveXis, is developing a product candidate for the treatment of Rett syndrome, AVXS-201, a preclinical AAV9 capsid vector that carries AAV ITR sequences and a minimal MECP2 promoter that is designed to be active in the CNS
in an unregulated manner. In addition, the Rett Syndrome Research Trust, Amicus Therapeutics and Sarepta have disclosed the existence of discovery-stage gene therapy programs although the development status of these programs is unclear.
Manufacturing
Through our collaboration with the UT Southwestern Gene Therapy Program, we have access to a new, state-of-the-art AAV production facility which includes approximately 2,000 square feet of laboratory space for process development and research-grade AAV vector production, as well as a 1,000 square foot ISO7 cleanroom facility dedicated solely for cGMP AAV vector manufacture.
This facility is outfitted with new equipment purchased in 2018 and 2019 for research-grade and GMP-grade AAV vector production. The process development lab is equipped with two Sartorius Biostat B Controller Stations with four 10 liter glass bioreactors and four 2 liter glass bioreactors, a Sartorius Biostat STR 50 liter bioreactor with controller and a Sartorius AMBR 250 process development bioreactor. Our strategic partnership with UT Southwestern provides us with access to this facility to allow for process development for development programs.
The UT Southwestern GMP facility is equipped with a Sartorius Biostat STR 50 liter bioreactor with controller, a Sartorius Biostat STR 500 liter bioreactor with controller, Sartoflow Smart tangential flow filtration unit, a Sartorius FlexAct UD, two bioprocessing workstations and an automated dispenser to support our AAV9 manufacturing needs for early clinical trials. We believe this capacity will be sufficient to meet the clinical demand for our full pipeline of product candidates.
In addition to our manufacturing capabilities provided by UT Southwestern, we have entered into a lease agreement to occupy and configure an approximately 187,000-square-foot commercial-scale cGMP manufacturing facility in Durham, North Carolina. We are currently engaged with engineering, architectural and construction firms to develop and execute our comprehensive facility build strategy, including pipeline and capacity planning assessment, benchmarking, quality systems and programs, and other strategic efforts related to the design and build out of the new facility to support commercial scale manufacturing of our pipeline programs.
License Agreements
Research, Collaboration and License Agreement with The University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center
In November 2019, we entered into a research, collaboration and license agreement, or the UT Southwestern Agreement, with The Board of Regents of the University of Texas System on behalf of UT Southwestern, as amended in April 2020. Under the UT Southwestern Agreement, UT Southwestern is primarily responsible for preclinical development activities with respect to licensed products for use in certain specified indications (up to IND-enabling studies), and we are responsible for all subsequent clinical development and commercialization activities with respect to licensed products. UT Southwestern will conduct such preclinical activities for a two-year period under mutually agreed upon sponsored research agreements that are funded by us. During the initial research phase, we have the right to expand the scope of specified indications under the UT Southwestern Agreement. We currently have 15 product candidates pursuant to the UT Southwestern Agreement, option rights with respect to KCNQ2 and options for an additional four indications. The research program activities will be overseen by a joint steering committee.
In connection with the UT Southwestern Agreement, we obtained an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license under certain patent rights of UT Southwestern and a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license under certain know-how of UT Southwestern, in each case to make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale and import licensed products for use in certain specified indications. Additionally, we obtained a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free license under certain patents and know-how of UT Southwestern for use in all human uses, with a right of first refusal to obtain an exclusive license under certain of such patent rights and an option to negotiate an exclusive license under other of such patent rights at no cost. We are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, obtain regulatory approval for, and commercialize at least one licensed product.
In connection with the license grant, we issued to UT Southwestern 2,179,000 shares of our common stock. We do not have any future milestone or royalty obligations to UT Southwestern under the UT Southwestern Agreement, other than costs related to the maintenance of patents.
The UT Southwestern Agreement expires on a country-by-country and licensed product-by-licensed product basis upon the expiration of the last valid claim of a licensed patent in such country for such licensed product. After the initial research term, we may terminate the agreement, on an indication-by-indication and licensed product-by-licensed product basis, at any time upon specified written notice to UT Southwestern. Either party may terminate the agreement upon an uncured material breach of the agreement or insolvency of the other party.
License Agreement with Queen’s University at Kingston
In February 2020, we entered into a license agreement, or the Queen’s University Agreement, with Queen’s University at Kingston, or Queen’s University. In connection with the Queen’s University Agreement, we obtained an exclusive, perpetual, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to grant sublicenses through multiple tiers, under certain patent rights and know-how related to bicistronic vectors, including with respect to TSHA-101, of Queen’s University, including certain improvements to such patent rights and know-how, to develop products in any field which use one or more valid claims of the patents licensed under the Queen’s University Agreement, or the Licensed Patents, or the technology, information and intellectual property related to the patents licensed under the Queen’s University Agreement, or the Licensed Technology and together with the Licensed Patents, the Licensed Products, and to make, have made, use, sell, offer for sale, import and export Licensed Products and otherwise exploit such patents and know-how for use in certain specified indications. We also obtained an exclusive right of first negotiation to license certain next-generation technology and improvements of Queen’s University that do not constitute an already-licensed improvement to the Licensed Technology. The Licensed Patent will expire in 2037, absent any patent term adjustment or extension.
We are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to exploit the Licensed Technology in countries where it is commercially reasonable to develop Licensed Products, including by meeting certain diligence milestones within certain specified periods of time. In addition, we have final decision-making authority on the filing, prosecution or maintenance of Licensed Patents.
In connection with the Queen’s University Agreement, we paid Queen’s University a one-time fee of $3.0 million as an upfront fee and $0.2 million to reimburse Queen’s University for certain plasmid production costs. We are obligated to pay Queen’s University up to $10.0 million in the aggregate upon achievement of certain regulatory milestones, up to $10.0 million in the aggregate upon achievement of commercial milestones, a low single digit royalty on net sales of Licensed Products, subject to certain customary reductions, and a percentage of non-royalty sublicensing revenue ranging in the low double digits. Royalties are payable on a Licensed Product-by-Licensed Product basis and country-by-country basis until expiration of the last valid claim of a Licensed Patent covering such Licensed Product in such country and the expiration of any regulatory exclusivity for such Licensed Product in such country. Additionally, we are obligated to pay Queen’s University a low double-digit portion of any amounts received by us in connection with the sale of a priority review voucher related to a Licensed Product, not to exceed a low eight-figure amount.
The Queen’s University Agreement expires upon the expiration of the last royalty term of a Licensed Product. Either party may terminate the agreement upon an uncured material breach of the agreement or insolvency of the other party. We may elect to terminate the agreement upon specified prior written notice to Queen’s University.
We were also obligated under the terms of a separate research grant agreement to reimburse Queen’s University for certain clinical manufacturing production costs of approximately $3.8 million all of which was paid in 2020.
License Agreements with Abeona
CLN1
In August 2020, we entered into a license agreement, or the Abeona CLN1 Agreement, with Abeona. In connection with the Abeona CLN1 Agreement, we obtained an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to grant sublicenses under certain patents, know-how and materials originally developed by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Abeona to research, develop, manufacture, have manufactured, use, and commercialize licensed products for gene therapy for the prevention, treatment, or diagnosis of CLN1 disease in humans.
Subject to certain obligations of Abeona, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop at least one licensed product and commercialize at least one licensed product in the United States.
In connection with the license grant, we paid Abeona a one-time upfront license fee of $3.0 million. We are obligated to pay Abeona up to $26.0 million in regulatory-related milestones and up to $30.0 million in sales-related milestones per licensed product and high single-digit royalties on net sales of licensed products. Royalties are payable on a licensed product-by-licensed product and country-by-country basis until the latest of the expiration or revocation or complete rejection of the last licensed patent covering such licensed product in the country where the licensed product is sold, the loss of market exclusivity in such country where the product is sold, or, if no licensed product exists in such country and no market exclusivity exists in such country, ten years from first commercial sale of such licensed product in such country. In addition, concurrent with the Abeona CLN1 Agreement we entered into a purchase and reimbursement agreement with Abeona, pursuant to which we purchased specified inventory from Abeona for total consideration of $4.0 million.
The Abeona CLN1 Agreement expires on a country-by-country and licensed product-by-licensed product basis upon the expiration of the last royalty term of a licensed product. Either party may terminate the agreement upon an uncured material breach of the agreement or insolvency of the other party. We may terminate the agreement for convenience upon specified prior written notice to Abeona.
Rett Syndrome
In October 2020, we entered into a license agreement, or the Abeona Rett Agreement, with Abeona pursuant to which we obtained an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license, with the right to grant sublicenses under certain patents, know-how and materials originally developed by the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the University of Edinburgh and Abeona to research, develop, manufacture, have manufactured, use, and commercialize licensed products for gene therapy and the use of related transgenes for Rett syndrome.
Subject to certain obligations of Abeona, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop at least one licensed product and commercialize at least one licensed product in the United States.
In connection with the Abeona Rett Agreement, we paid Abeona a one-time upfront license fee of $3.0 million. We are obligated to pay Abeona up to $26.5 million in regulatory-related milestones and up to $30.0 million in sales-related milestones per licensed product and high single-digit royalties on net sales of licensed products. Royalties are payable on a licensed product-by-licensed product and country-by-country basis until the latest of the expiration or revocation or complete rejection of the last licensed patent covering such licensed product in the country where the licensed product is sold, the loss of market exclusivity in such country where the product is sold, or, if no licensed product exists in such country and no market exclusivity exists in such country, ten years from first commercial sale of such licensed product in such country.
The Abeona Rett Agreement expires on a country-by-country and licensed product-by-licensed product basis upon the expiration of the last royalty term of a licensed product. Either party may terminate the agreement upon an uncured material breach of the agreement or insolvency of the other party. We may terminate the agreement for convenience upon specified prior written notice to Abeona.
Intellectual Property
We actively seek to protect our proprietary technology, inventions, and other intellectual property that is commercially important to the development of our business by a variety of means, for example seeking, maintaining, and defending patent rights, whether developed internally or licensed from third parties. We also may rely on trade secrets and know-how relating to our proprietary technology platform, on continuing technological innovation and on in-licensing opportunities to develop, strengthen and maintain the strength of our position in the field of gene therapy that may be important for the development of our business. We also intend to seek patent protection or rely upon trade secret rights to protect other technologies that may be used to discover and validate targets, and that may be used to manufacture and develop novel gene therapy products. We are a party to license agreements that give us rights to use specific technologies in our gene therapy products and in manufacturing our products. Additional regulatory protection may also be afforded through data exclusivity, market exclusivity and patent term extensions where available.
As of January 26, 2021, we in-license five pending Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, applications, 27 pending foreign patent applications and 13 pending United States patent applications, of which seven are United States utility patent applications, which, if issued, are expected to expire between 2037and 2040, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment, and six that are United States provisional patent applications, where patent applications claiming priority to these provisional patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire in 2041, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment. Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions and improvements to inventions that may be commercially important to the development of our business.
We in-license one pending PCT application and one United States utility patent application that relate to our TSHA-103 SLC6A1 program. This United States utility patent application, and any foreign patent applications based on this PCT application, if issued, are expected to expire in 2040, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment. We in-license one PCT patent application and one United States utility patent application that relate to our TSHA-104 SURF1 program. This United States utility patent application, and any foreign patent applications based on this PCT application, if issued, are expected to expire in 2040, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment. Patent applications directed to our most advanced product candidates are summarized below:
TSHA-101
We in-license a United States utility patent application directed to a bicistronic HEXBP2A-HEXA transgene packaged into an AAV vector, and methods of using that vector to treat GM2 gangliosidosis, such as Tay-Sachs disease or Sandhoff disease, which, if issued, is expected to expire in 2037, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment. This application has no foreign counterparts.
TSHA-118
We in-license certain patent rights directed to a palmitoyl-protein thioesterase 1-encoding transgene packaged into an AAV vector, and methods of using that vector to treat CLN1 disease (one of the forms of Batten disease). Specifically, pursuant to our license agreement with Abeona we have in-licensed one PCT patent application assigned to Abeona. Patent applications based on this PCT application, if issued, are expected to expire in 2040, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment. In addition, pursuant to the Abeona CLN1 agreement, we have sublicensed 15 pending patent applications worldwide assigned to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. These patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire in 2037, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment.
TSHA-102
We in-license one PCT patent application and one United States utility patent application directed to a minigene encoding MECP2 packaged into an AAV vector, and methods of using that vector to treat Rett syndrome. This United States utility patent application, and any foreign patent applications based on this PCT application, if issued, are expected to expire in 2040, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment. We also in-license 15 pending patent applications worldwide directed to MECP2 expression cassettes for gene therapy. These patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire in 2038, without taking into account any possible patent term adjustment.
We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and confidential information to develop and maintain our proprietary position and protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. We seek to protect employees, consultants, scientific advisors, contractors and others who may have access to proprietary information, under which they are bound to assign to us inventions made during the term of their employment or term of service. We also seek to preserve the integrity and confidentiality of our data and trade secrets by maintaining physical security of our premises and physical and electronic security of our information technology systems.
Government Regulation
The FDA and other regulatory authorities at federal, state and local levels, as well as in foreign countries, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, import, export, safety, effectiveness, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, record keeping, approval, advertising, promotion, marketing, post-approval monitoring and post-approval reporting of biologics such as those we are developing.
Biological products are subject to regulation under the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and the Public Health Service Act, or PHSA, and other federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations. We, along with third-party contractors, will be required to navigate the various preclinical, clinical and commercial approval requirements of the governing regulatory agencies of the countries in which we wish to conduct studies or seek approval or licensure of our product candidates.
U.S. Biologics Regulation
The process required by the FDA before biological product candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:
•
completion of extensive preclinical laboratory tests and animal studies performed in accordance with applicable regulations, including the GLP regulations;
•
submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin;
•
approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, or ethics committee at each clinical site before the trial is commenced;
•
performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety, purity and potency of the proposed biological product candidate for its intended purpose;
•
preparation of and submission to the FDA of a biologics license application, or BLA, after completion of all pivotal clinical trials;
•
a determination by the FDA within 60 days of its receipt of a BLA to file the application for review;
•
satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the proposed product is produced to assess compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice requirements, or cGMPs, and to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the biological product’s continued safety, purity and potency, and of selected clinical investigation sites to assess compliance with the FDA’s good clinical practices, or GCPs;
•
satisfactory completion of an FDA Advisory Committee review, if applicable; and
•
FDA review and approval, or licensure, of a BLA to permit commercial marketing of the product for particular indications for use in the United States.
Preclinical and Clinical Development
Prior to beginning the first clinical trial with a product candidate, we must submit an IND to the FDA. An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational new drug product to humans. The central focus of an IND submission is on the general investigational plan and the protocol or protocols for preclinical studies and clinical trials. The IND also includes results of animal and in vitro studies assessing the toxicology, pharmacokinetics, pharmacology and pharmacodynamic characteristics of the product, chemistry, manufacturing and controls information, and any available human data or literature to support the use of the investigational product. An IND must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day period, raises safety concerns or questions about the proposed clinical trial. In such a case, the IND may be placed on clinical hold and the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns or questions before the clinical trial can begin. Submission of an IND therefore may or may not result in FDA authorization to begin a clinical trial.
In addition to the submission of an IND to the FDA before initiation of a clinical trial in the United States, certain human clinical trials involving recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid molecules are subject to oversight at the local level as set forth in the NIH Guidelines. Specifically, under the NIH Guidelines, supervision of human gene transfer trials includes evaluation and assessment by an Institutional Biosafety Committee, or IBC, a local institutional committee that reviews and oversees research utilizing recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid molecules at that institution. The IBC assesses the safety of the research and identifies any potential risk to public health or the environment, and such review may result in some delay before initiation of a clinical trial. While the NIH Guidelines are not mandatory unless the research in question is being conducted at or sponsored by institutions receiving NIH funding of recombinant or synthetic nucleic acid molecule research, many companies and other institutions not otherwise subject to the NIH Guidelines voluntarily follow them.
Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with GCPs, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent for their participation in any clinical study. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A separate submission to the existing IND must be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during product development and for any subsequent protocol amendments. Furthermore, an independent IRB for each site proposing to conduct the clinical trial must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial and its informed consent form before the clinical trial begins at that site, and must monitor the study until completed. Regulatory authorities, the IRB or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or that the trial is unlikely to meet its stated objectives. Some studies also include oversight by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical study sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board, which provides authorization for whether or not a study may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the study and may halt the clinical trial if it determines that there is an unacceptable safety risk for subjects or other grounds, such as no demonstration of efficacy. There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing preclinical studies and clinical trials and clinical study results to public registries.
For purposes of BLA approval of a product candidate, human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases that may overlap or be combined:
•
Phase 1. For gene therapies, the investigational product is initially introduced into patients with the target disease or condition. These studies are designed to test the safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism and distribution of the investigational product in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness.
•
Phase 2. The investigational product is administered to a limited patient population to evaluate the preliminary efficacy, optimal dosages and dosing schedule and to identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks.
•
Phase 3. The investigational product is administered to an expanded patient population to further evaluate dosage, to provide statistically significant evidence of clinical efficacy and to further test for safety, generally at multiple geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the investigational product and to provide an adequate basis for product approval.
When these phases overlap or are combined, the trials may be referred to as Phase 1/2 or Phase 2/3.
In some cases, the FDA may require, or companies may voluntarily pursue, additional clinical trials after a product is approved to gain more information about the product. These so-called Phase 4 studies may be made a condition to approval of the BLA. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies may complete additional animal studies and develop additional information about the characteristics of the product candidate, and must finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product candidate and, among other things, must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final product, or for biologics, the safety, purity and potency. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the product candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life.
During all phases of clinical development, regulatory agencies require extensive monitoring and auditing of all clinical activities, clinical data, and clinical study investigators. The FDA or the sponsor or its data safety monitoring board may suspend a clinical study at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research patients or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical study at its institution if the clinical study is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the biological product candidate has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical trials and completed clinical trial results to public registries. Sponsors of clinical trials of FDA-regulated products, including biologics, are required to register and disclose certain clinical trial information, which is publicly available at www.clinicaltrials.gov.
BLA Submission and Review
Assuming successful completion of all required testing in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements, the results of product development, nonclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of a BLA requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The BLA must include all relevant data available from pertinent preclinical studies and clinical trials, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the product’s chemistry, manufacturing, controls, and proposed labeling, among other things. The submission of a BLA requires payment of a substantial application user fee to the FDA, unless a waiver or exemption applies. The FDA has sixty days from the applicant’s submission of a BLA to either issue a refusal to file letter or accept the BLA for filing, indicating that it is sufficiently complete to permit substantive review.
Once a BLA has been accepted for filing, the FDA’s goal is to review standard applications within ten months after it accepts the application for filing, or, if the application qualifies for priority review, six months after the FDA accepts the application for filing. In both standard and priority reviews, the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. The FDA reviews a BLA to determine, among other things, whether a product is safe, pure and potent for its intended use, and whether the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packed or held meets standards designed to assure and preserve the product’s identity, safety, strength, quality, potency and purity. The FDA may convene an advisory committee to provide clinical insight on application review questions. Before approving a BLA, the FDA will typically inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving a BLA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCPs. If the FDA determines that the application, manufacturing process or manufacturing facilities are not acceptable, it will outline the deficiencies in the submission and often will request additional testing or information. Notwithstanding the submission of any requested additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval.
After the FDA evaluates a BLA and conducts inspections of manufacturing facilities where the investigational product and/or its drug substance will be manufactured, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a Complete Response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A Complete Response letter will describe all of the deficiencies that the FDA has identified in the BLA, except that where the FDA determines that the data supporting the application are inadequate to support approval, the FDA may issue the Complete Response letter without first conducting required inspections, testing submitted product lots and/or reviewing proposed labeling. In issuing the Complete Response letter, the FDA may recommend actions that the applicant might take to place the BLA in condition for approval, including requests for additional information or clarification, which may include the potential requirement for additional clinical studies. The FDA may delay or refuse approval of a BLA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, require additional testing or information and/or require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor safety or efficacy of a product.
If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval will be granted for particular indications and may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which such product may be marketed. For example, the FDA may approve the BLA with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, to ensure the benefits of the product outweigh its risks. A REMS is a safety strategy to manage a known or potential serious risk associated with a product and to enable patients to have continued access to such medicines by managing their safe use, and could include medication guides, physician communication plans, or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. The FDA also may condition approval on, among other things, changes to proposed labeling or the development of adequate controls and specifications. Once approved, the FDA may withdraw the product approval if compliance with pre- and post-marketing requirements is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the marketplace. The FDA may require one or more Phase 4 post-market studies and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product’s safety and effectiveness after commercialization, and may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-marketing studies.
Expedited Development and Review Programs
The FDA offers a number of expedited development and review programs for qualifying product candidates. The fast track program is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new products that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new products are eligible for fast track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the disease or condition. Fast track designation applies to the combination of the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. The sponsor of a fast track product has opportunities for frequent interactions with the review team during product development and, once a BLA is submitted, the product may be eligible for priority review. A fast track
product may also be eligible for rolling review, where the FDA may consider for review sections of the BLA on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor provides a schedule for the submission of the sections of the BLA, the FDA agrees to accept sections of the BLA and determines that the schedule is acceptable, and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the BLA.
A product intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition may also be eligible for breakthrough therapy designation to expedite its development and review. A product can receive breakthrough therapy designation if preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs or biologics, may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. The designation includes all of the fast track program features, as well as more intensive FDA interaction and guidance beginning as early as Phase 1 and an organizational commitment to expedite the development and review of the product, including involvement of senior managers.
An RMAT is defined as cell therapies, therapeutic tissue engineering products, human cell and tissue products, and combination products using any such therapies or products. Gene therapies, including genetically modified cells that lead to a durable modification of cells or tissues may meet the definition of a Regenerative Medicine Therapy. The RMAT program is intended to facilitate efficient development and expedite review of RMATs, which are intended to treat, modify, reverse, or cure a serious or life-threatening disease or condition. A new drug application or a BLA for an RMAT may be eligible for priority review or accelerated approval through (1) surrogate or intermediate endpoints reasonably likely to predict long-term clinical benefit or (2) reliance upon data obtained from a meaningful number of sites. Benefits of such designation also include early interactions with FDA to discuss any potential surrogate or intermediate endpoint to be used to support accelerated approval. A Regenerative Medicine Therapy that is granted accelerated approval and is subject to post-approval requirements may fulfill such requirements through the submission of clinical evidence, clinical studies, patient registries, or other sources of real world evidence, such as electronic health records; the collection of larger confirmatory data sets; or post-approval monitoring of all patients treated with such therapy prior to its approval.
Any marketing application for a biologic submitted to the FDA for approval, including a product with a fast track designation and/or breakthrough therapy designation, may be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite the FDA review and approval process, such as priority review and accelerated approval. A product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a serious disease or condition. For original BLAs, priority review designation means the FDA’s goal is to take action on the marketing application within six months of the 60-day filing date.
Additionally, products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions may receive accelerated approval upon a determination that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. As a condition of accelerated approval, the FDA will generally require the sponsor to perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies to verify and describe the anticipated effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit. In addition, the FDA currently requires as a condition for accelerated approval pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product.
Fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation, RMAT designation, priority review and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process. Even if a product qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the product no longer meets the conditions for qualification or decide that the time period for FDA review or approval will not be shortened.
Orphan Drug Designation
Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biologic intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or 200,000 or more than individuals in the United States for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug or biologic for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug or biologic. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting a BLA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. The orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review or approval process.
If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusive approval (or exclusivity), which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications, including a full BLA, to market the same biologic for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity or if the holder of the orphan drug exclusivity cannot assure the availability of sufficient quantities of the orphan drug to meet the needs of patients with the disease or condition for which the drug was designated. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent the FDA from approving a different drug or
biologic for the same disease or condition, or the same drug or biologic for a different disease or condition. Among the other benefits of orphan drug designation are tax credits for certain research and a waiver of the BLA application fee.
A designated orphan drug may not receive orphan drug exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. In addition, exclusive marketing rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantities of the product to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition.
Rare Pediatric Disease Designation and Priority Review Vouchers
Under the FDCA, as amended, the FDA incentivizes the development of drugs and biologics that meet the definition of a “rare pediatric disease,” defined to mean a serious or life-threatening disease in which the serious of life-threatening manifestations primarily affect individuals aged from birth to 18 years and the disease affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States or affects 200,000 or more in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making in the United States a drug for such disease or condition will be received from sales in the United States of such drug. The sponsor of a product candidate for a rare pediatric disease may be eligible for a voucher that can be used to obtain a priority review for a subsequent human drug or biologic application after the date of approval of the rare pediatric disease drug product, referred to as a priority review voucher, or PRV. A sponsor may request rare pediatric disease designation from the FDA prior to the submission of its NDA or BLA. A rare pediatric disease designation does not guarantee that a sponsor will receive a PRV upon approval of its NDA or BLA. Moreover, a sponsor who chooses not to submit a rare pediatric disease designation request may nonetheless receive a PRV upon approval of their marketing application if they request such a voucher in their original marketing application and meet all of the eligibility criteria. If a PRV is received, it may be sold or transferred an unlimited number of times. Congress has extended the PRV program until September 30, 2024, with the potential for PRVs to be granted until September 30, 2026.
Post-Approval Requirements
Any products manufactured or distributed by us pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to record-keeping, reporting of adverse experiences, periodic reporting, product sampling and distribution, and advertising and promotion of the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to prior FDA review and approval. There also are continuing user fee requirements, under which the FDA assesses an annual program fee for each product identified in an approved BLA. Biologic manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMPs, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon us and our third-party manufacturers. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated, and, depending on the significance of the change, may require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from cGMPs and impose reporting requirements upon us and any third-party manufacturers that we may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with cGMPs and other aspects of regulatory compliance.
The FDA may withdraw approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical studies to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution restrictions or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things:
•
restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of a product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls;
•
fines, warning or untitled letters or holds on post-approval clinical studies;
•
refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, or suspension or revocation of existing product approvals;
•
product seizure or detention, or refusal of the FDA to permit the import or export of products;
•
consent decrees, corporate integrity agreements, debarment or exclusion from federal healthcare programs;
•
mandated modification of promotional materials and labeling and the issuance of corrective information;
•
the issuance of safety alerts, Dear Healthcare Provider letters, press releases and other communications containing warnings or other safety information about the product; or
•
injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.
The FDA closely regulates the marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of biologics. A company can make only those claims relating to safety and efficacy, purity and potency that are approved by the FDA and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. However, companies may share truthful and not misleading information that is otherwise consistent with a product’s FDA approved labeling. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in, among other things, adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising and potential civil and criminal penalties. Physicians may prescribe legally available products for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those tested by us and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties. Physicians may believe that such off-label uses are the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA does, however, restrict manufacturer’s communications on the subject of off-label use of their products.
Biosimilars and Reference Product Exclusivity
The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or collectively the ACA, includes a subtitle called the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act, or BPCIA, which created an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products that are biosimilar to or interchangeable with an FDA-approved reference biological product. To date, a number of biosimilars have been licensed under the BPCIA, and numerous biosimilars have been approved in Europe. The FDA has issued several guidance documents outlining an approach to review and approval of biosimilars.
Biosimilarity, which requires that there be no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity, and potency, can be shown through analytical studies, animal studies, and a clinical study or studies. Interchangeability requires that a product is biosimilar to the reference product and the product must demonstrate that it can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product in any given patient and, for products that are administered multiple times to an individual, the biologic and the reference biologic may be alternated or switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biologic. Complexities associated with the larger, and often more complex, structures of biological products, as well as the processes by which such products are manufactured, pose significant hurdles to implementation of the abbreviated approval pathway that are still being worked out by the FDA.
Under the BPCIA, an application for a biosimilar product may not be submitted to the FDA until four years following the date that the reference product was first licensed by the FDA. In addition, the approval of a biosimilar product may not be made effective by the FDA until 12 years from the date on which the reference product was first licensed. During this 12-year period of exclusivity, another company may still market a competing version of the reference product if the FDA approves a full BLA for the competing product containing that applicant’s own preclinical data and data from adequate and well-controlled clinical trials to demonstrate the safety, purity and potency of its product. The BPCIA also created certain exclusivity periods for biosimilars approved as interchangeable products. At this juncture, it is unclear whether products deemed “interchangeable” by the FDA will, in fact, be readily substituted by pharmacies, which are governed by state pharmacy law.
The BPCIA is complex and continues to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. In addition, government proposals have sought to reduce the 12-year reference product exclusivity period. Other aspects of the BPCIA, some of which may impact the BPCIA exclusivity provisions, have also been the subject of recent litigation. As a result, the ultimate impact, implementation, and impact of the BPCIA is subject to significant uncertainty.
Foreign Regulation
In order to market any product outside of the United States, we would need to comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries and jurisdictions regarding quality, safety, and efficacy and governing, among other things, clinical trials, marketing authorization, commercial sales and distribution of our products. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we would need to obtain the necessary approvals by the comparable foreign regulatory authorities before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in foreign countries and jurisdictions. Although many of the issues discussed above with respect to the United States apply similarly in the context of the European Union, the approval process varies between countries and jurisdictions and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries and jurisdictions might differ from and be longer than that required to obtain FDA approval. Regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country or jurisdiction may negatively impact the regulatory process in others.
Other Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements
Pharmaceutical companies are subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which they conduct their business. Such laws include, without limitation: the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, the civil False Claims Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and similar foreign, federal and state fraud and abuse, transparency and privacy laws.
The U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, persons and entities from knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying remuneration, to induce, or in return for, either the referral of an individual, or the purchase or recommendation of an item or service for which payment may be made under any federal healthcare program. The term remuneration has been interpreted broadly to include anything of value, including stock options. The U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and others on the other hand. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution, but they are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration, such as consulting agreements, that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular applicable statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute. Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all of its facts and circumstances. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for protection under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor. A person or entity does not need to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. In addition, a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act.
Civil and criminal false claims laws, and civil monetary penalty laws, including the civil False Claims Act, which can be enforced through civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, prohibit, among other things, individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to the federal government, including federal healthcare programs, that are false or fraudulent. For example, the civil False Claims Act prohibits any person or entity from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. A claim includes “any request or demand” for money or property presented to the U.S. government. Several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product.
HIPAA created additional federal civil and criminal liability for, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program, or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payor (e.g., public or private) and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing, or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity can be found guilty of violating HIPAA without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, impose certain requirements on HIPAA covered entities, which include certain healthcare providers, healthcare clearing houses and health plans, and individuals and entities that provide services on their behalf that involve individually identifiable health information, known as business associates, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information, as well as their covered subcontractors. HITECH also created new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys’ fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions.
The U.S. federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act requires certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program, with specific exceptions, to annually report to CMS information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (currently defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Effective January 1, 2022, these reporting obligations will extend to include transfers of value made during the previous year to physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, anesthesiologist assistants, certified registered nurse anesthetists and certified nurse midwives.
We are also subject to additional similar U.S. state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third party payors, including private insurers, or that apply regardless of payor, state laws which require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, state and local laws which require pharmaceutical companies to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures, state laws which require the reporting of information related to drug pricing, state and local laws requiring the registration of pharmaceutical sales representatives, and state and foreign laws governing the privacy and security of health information which, in some cases, differ from each
other in significant ways, and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of such laws or any other governmental regulations that apply, we may be subject to penalties, including, without limitation, significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, imprisonment damages, fines, exclusion from government-funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid or similar programs in other countries or jurisdictions, integrity oversight and reporting obligations to resolve allegations of non-compliance, disgorgement, imprisonment, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations.
Coverage and Reimbursement
Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any pharmaceutical or biological product for which we obtain regulatory approval. Sales of any product, if approved, depend, in part, on the extent to which such product will be covered by third-party payors, such as federal, state, and foreign government healthcare programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations, and the level of reimbursement, if any, for such product by third-party payors. Decisions regarding whether to cover any of our product candidates, if approved, the extent of coverage and amount of reimbursement to be provided are made on a plan-by-plan basis. Further, no uniform policy for coverage and reimbursement exists in the United States, and coverage and reimbursement can differ significantly from payor to payor.
Nonetheless, product candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost effective. A decision by a third-party payor not to cover any product candidates we may develop could reduce physician utilization of such product candidates once approved and have a material adverse effect on our sales, results of operations and financial condition Third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement rates, but also have their own methods and approval process apart from Medicare determinations. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our product candidates to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be applied consistently or obtained in the first instance.
For products administered under the supervision of a physician, obtaining coverage and adequate reimbursement may be particularly difficult because of the higher prices often associated with such drugs. Additionally, separate reimbursement for the product itself or the treatment or procedure in which the product is used may not be available, which may impact physician utilization.
In addition, the U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have continued implementing cost-containment programs, including price controls, restrictions on coverage and reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products. Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services, examining the medical necessity and reviewing the cost effectiveness of pharmaceutical or biological products, medical devices and medical services, in addition to questioning safety and efficacy. Adoption of price controls and cost-containment measures, and adoption of more restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could further limit sales of any product that receives approval. Decreases in third-party reimbursement for any product or a decision by a third-party not to cover a product could reduce physician usage and patient demand for the product.
Outside the United States, ensuring adequate coverage and payment for any biological candidates we may develop will face challenges. Pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control in many countries. Pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can extend well beyond the receipt of regulatory marketing approval for a product and may require us to conduct a clinical trial that compares the cost effectiveness of any product candidates we may develop to other available therapies. The conduct of such a clinical trial could be expensive and result in delays in our commercialization efforts. In the European Union, pricing and reimbursement schemes vary widely from country to country. Some countries provide that products may be marketed only after a reimbursement price has been agreed. Some countries may require the completion of additional studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of a particular product candidate to currently available therapies (so called health technology assessments) in order to obtain reimbursement or pricing approval. For example, the European Union provides options for its member states to restrict the range of products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. European Union member states may approve a specific price for a product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the product on the market. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for products but monitor and control prescription volumes and issue guidance to physicians to limit prescriptions. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on pharmaceuticals and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. The downward pressure on healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription products, has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. Political, economic, and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various European Union member states, and parallel trade (arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states), can further reduce prices. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products, if approved in those countries.
Healthcare Reform
The United States and some foreign jurisdictions are considering or have enacted a number of reform proposals to change the healthcare system. There is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by federal and state legislative initiatives, including those designed to limit the pricing, coverage, and reimbursement of pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical products, especially under government-funded healthcare programs, and increased governmental control of drug pricing.
The ACA, which was enacted in March 2010, substantially changed the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers in the United States, and significantly affected the pharmaceutical industry. The ACA contains a number of provisions of particular import to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, including, but not limited to, those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, and annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies’ share of sales to federal healthcare programs. Since its enactment, there have been judicial, Congressional and executive branch challenges to certain aspects of the ACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges and amendments to the ACA in the future. For example, Congress has considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the ACA. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, it has enacted laws that modify certain provisions of the ACA such as removing penalties, which started on January 1, 2019, for not complying with ACA’s individual mandate to carry health insurance, delaying the implementation of certain ACA-mandated fees, and increasing the point-of-sale discount that is owed by pharmaceutical manufacturers who participate in Medicare Part D. On December 14, 2018, a U.S. District Court Judge in Texas ruled that the ACA is unconstitutional in its entirety because the “individual mandate” was repealed by Congress as part of legislation enacted in 2017, informally titled the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act. On December 18, 2019, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 5th Circuit ruled that the individual mandate was unconstitutional and remanded the case back to the District Court to determine whether the remaining provisions of the ACA are invalid as well. The United States Supreme Court is currently reviewing this case, although it is unclear when a decision will be made. It is also unclear how such litigation and other efforts to repeal and replace the ACA will impact the ACA and our business.
Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted, including aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year and reduced payments to several types of Medicare providers. These reductions went into effect in April 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2030 unless additional action is taken by Congress. However, pursuant to COVID-19 pandemic relief legislation, these Medicare sequester reductions have been suspended from May 1, 2020 through March 31, 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Moreover, there has recently been heightened governmental scrutiny over the manner in which manufacturers set prices for their marketed products, which has resulted in several Congressional inquiries and proposed and enacted federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to product pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products. At the federal level, the Trump administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2021 contains includes a $135 billion allowance to support legislative proposals seeking to reduce drug prices, increase competition, lower out-of-pocket drug costs for patients and increase patient access to lower-cost generic and biosimilar drugs. On March 10, 2020, the Trump administration sent “principles” for drug pricing to Congress, calling for legislation that would, among other things, cap Medicare Part D beneficiary out-of-pocket pharmacy expenses, provide an option to cap Medicare Part D beneficiary monthly out-of-pocket expenses and place limits on pharmaceutical price increases. The Trump administration previously released a “Blueprint” to lower drug prices and reduce out of pocket costs of drugs that contains additional proposals to increase manufacturer competition, increase the negotiating power of certain federal healthcare programs, incentivize manufacturers to lower the list price of their products and reduce the out of pocket costs of drug products paid by consumers. On July 24, 2020 and September 13, 2020, the Trump administration announced several executive orders related to prescription drug pricing that seek to implement several of the administration’s proposals. As a result, the FDA released a final rule on September 24, 2020, effective November 30, 2020, providing guidance for states to build and submit importation plans for drugs from Canada. Further, on November 20, 2020, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, finalized a regulation removing safe harbor protection for price reductions from pharmaceutical manufacturers to plan sponsors under Part D, either directly or through pharmacy benefit managers, unless the price reduction is required by law. The rule also creates a new safe harbor for price reductions reflected at the point-of-sale, as well as a safe harbor for certain fixed fee arrangements between pharmacy benefit managers and manufacturers. On November 20, 2020, CMS issued an interim final rule implementing President Trump’s Most Favored Nation executive order, which would tie Medicare Part B payments for certain physician-administered drugs to the lowest price paid in other economically advanced countries, effective January 1, 2021. On December 28, 2020, the United States District Court in Northern California issued a nationwide preliminary injunction against implementation of the interim final rule. It is unclear whether the Biden administration will work to reverse these measures or pursue similar policy initiatives.
Although a number of these and other proposed measures may require additional authorization to become effective, Congress and the Trump administration have each indicated that it will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs. Additional state and federal healthcare reform measures may be adopted in the future. Further, it is possible that additional governmental action is taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. At the state level, legislatures have increasingly passed legislation and implemented regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing.
Human Capital Resources
Our human capital is integral to helping us achieve our mission of eradicating monogenic diseases of the CNS. We have built a culture of high performance based on our core values:
•
Being an ally to the rare disease community;
•
Uncovering never-before-seen scientific discoveries;
•
Developing cutting-edge technologies and medicines;
•
Having a true sense for the term “partnership”; and
•
Exploring uncharted territory, just like the first Texas “wildcatters”.
Our human capital objectives include, as applicable, identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing and integrating our existing and additional employees. The principal purposes of our equity incentive plans are to attract, retain and motivate selected employees, consultants and directors through the granting of stock-based compensation awards.
As of December 31, 2020, we had 38 employees, all of whom were full-time. All of our employees are located in the United States. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationship with our employees to be good.
Corporate Information
We were incorporated under the laws of the State of Texas in September 2019. In February 2020, we converted to a Delaware corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 2280 Inwood Road, Dallas, Texas 75235 and our telephone number is (214) 612-0000.
Available Information
Our internet website address is www.tayshagtx.com. In addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this Annual Report, information about us can be found on our website. Our website and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this Annual Report.
Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Additionally the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. The address of the SEC's website is www.sec.gov.
Item 1A.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 79d91565f3c017c7fa6ae950fceb60a0
- Approx. Length: 33781 characters