# Context

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders, Board of Directors and Audit Committee
First Merchants Corporation
Muncie, Indiana
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of First Merchants Corporation (Corporation) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial statements"). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Corporation as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB"), the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) and our report dated March 1, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation's financial statements based on our audits.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Corporation in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures include examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Allowance for Loan Losses
As described in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Corporation’s consolidated allowance for loan and lease losses (ALLL) was $130.6 million at December 31, 2020. The ALLL is an estimate of probable credit losses related to specifically identified loans and for losses inherent in the portfolio that have been incurred as of the balance sheet date. The determination of the ALLL requires management to exercise significant judgment and consider numerous subjective factors, including determining qualitative factors utilized to adjust historical loss rates, risk grading loans, identifying loan impairments, among others. As disclosed by management, different assumptions and conditions could result in a materially different amount for the ALLL.
We identified the valuation of the ALLL as a critical audit matter. Auditing the allowance for loan losses involves a high degree of subjectivity in evaluating management’s estimates, such as evaluating management’s assessment of economic conditions and other environmental factors used to adjust historical loss rates, evaluating the adequacy of specific allowances associated with impaired loans and assessing the appropriateness of loan grades.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
The primary procedures we performed to address this critical audit matter included:
Testing the design and operating effectiveness of controls, including those related to technology, over the Corporation’s ALLL including data completeness and accuracy, classifications of loans by loan segment, historical loss data, the calculation of a loss rate, the establishment of qualitative adjustments, grading and risk classification of loans and establishment of specific reserves on impaired loans including purchased loans that have experienced further credit deterioration and management’s review controls over the ALLL balance as a whole including attending internal Corporation credit quality discussions and analysis;
•Testing of completeness and accuracy of the information utilized in the ALLL;
•Testing the model’s computational accuracy;
•Evaluating the qualitative adjustment to the historical loss rates, including assessing the basis for the adjustments and the reasonableness of the significant assumptions;
•Testing the internal loan review functions and evaluating the accuracy of loan grades;
•Evaluating the appropriateness of loan grades and assessing the reasonableness of specific reserves on impaired loans;
•Evaluating the overall reasonableness of assumptions used by considering the past performance of the Corporation and evaluating to trends identified within peer groups;
•Reviewing subsequent events and considering whether they support or contradict the Corporation’s assessment;
•Evaluating loan modifications made under Section 4013 of the CARES Act.
BKD, LLP
We have served as the Corporation’s auditor since at least 1982; however, an earlier year cannot be reliably determined.
Indianapolis, Indiana
March 1, 2021
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS - CONTINUED
In conjunction with the acquisitions, liabilities were assumed as follows:
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 1
NATURE OF OPERATIONS AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
FINANCIAL STATEMENT PREPARATION
The accounting and reporting policies of the Corporation and the Bank, conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and reporting practices followed by the banking industry.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses and fair value of financial instruments. The uncertainties related to COVID-19 could cause significant changes to these estimates compared to what was known at the time these financial statements were prepared.
The Corporation is a financial holding company whose principal activity is the ownership and management of the Bank and operates in a single significant business segment. The Bank provides full banking services under an Indiana state-charter. Additionally, the Bank operates as First Merchants Private Wealth Advisors (a division of First Merchants Bank).
The Bank generates commercial, mortgage, and consumer loans and receives deposits from customers located primarily in central and northern Indiana, northeast Illinois, central Ohio and southeast Michigan counties. The Bank’s loans are generally secured by specific items of collateral, including real property, consumer assets and business assets.
A brief description of current accounting practices and current valuation methodologies are presented below.
CONSOLIDATION
The consolidation of the Corporation's financial statements include the accounts of the Corporation and all its subsidiaries, after elimination of all material intercompany transactions.
BUSINESS COMBINATIONS
Business combinations are accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting. Under the acquisition method, assets and liabilities of the business acquired are recorded at their estimated fair values as of the date of acquisition with any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired recorded as goodwill. Results of operations of the acquired business are included in the income statement from the date of acquisition.
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash on hand, cash items in process of collection, cash held at various banks and federal funds sold are included in cash and cash equivalents and have a maturity of less than three months. The Corporation maintains deposits with other financial institutions in amounts that exceed federal deposit insurance coverage. Management regularly evaluates the credit risk associated with the counterparties to these transactions and believes there is not significant credit risk on cash and cash equivalents.
INVESTMENT SECURITIES
Held to maturity securities are carried at amortized cost when the Corporation has the positive intent and ability to hold them until maturity. Available for sale securities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis with the unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable income taxes, recorded in other comprehensive income. Realized gains and losses are recorded in earnings and the prior fair value adjustments are reclassified within stockholders' equity. Gains and losses on sales of securities are determined on the specific-identification method. Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts are amortized to their earliest call date and are recorded as interest income from securities.
Available for sale and held to maturity securities are evaluated for OTTI at least on a quarterly basis, and more frequently when economic or market conditions warrant such an evaluation. In determining OTTI, management considers many factors, including: (1) the length of time and the extent to which the fair value has been less than cost, (2) the financial condition and near term prospects of the issuer, (3) whether the market decline was affected by macroeconomic conditions, and (4) whether the Corporation has the intent to sell the debt security or more likely than not, will be required to sell the debt security before its anticipated recovery. The assessment of whether an other-than-temporary decline exists involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and is based on the information available to management at a point in time.
When OTTI occurs, the amount of OTTI recognized in the income statement depends on whether the Corporation intends to sell the security or it is more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, less any recognized credit loss. If the intent is to sell, or it is more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, less any recognized credit loss, the OTTI shall be recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the investment’s amortized cost basis, less any recognized credit loss, and its fair value at the balance sheet date. If the intent is not to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the security before the recovery of its amortized cost basis less any recognized credit loss, the OTTI has been separated into the amount representing the credit loss and the amount related to all other factors. The amount of the total OTTI related to the credit loss is determined based on the present value of cash flows expected to be collected and is recognized in earnings. The amount of the total OTTI related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of applicable income taxes. The previous amortized cost basis less the OTTI recognized in earnings becomes the new amortized cost basis of the investment.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
For held to maturity securities, the amount of an OTTI recorded in other comprehensive income for the noncredit portion of a previous other-than-temporary impairment is amortized prospectively over the remaining life of the security on the basis of the timing of future estimated cash flows of the security.
LOANS HELD FOR SALE
Loans originated and with an intent to sell are classified as held for sale and are carried at the principal amount outstanding. The carrying amount approximates fair value due to the short duration between origination and the date of sale.
LOANS
The Corporation’s loan portfolio is carried at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned income and principal charge-offs. Loan origination fees, net of direct loan origination costs, and commitment fees are deferred and amortized as an adjustment to yield over the life of the loan, or over the commitment period, as applicable. Interest income is accrued on the principal balances of loans. The accrual of interest is discontinued on a loan when, in management’s opinion, the borrower may be unable to meet payments as they become due. When the interest accrual is discontinued, all unpaid accrued interest is reversed against earnings when considered uncollectible. Interest income accrued in the prior year, if any, is charged to the allowance for loan losses. Interest income is subsequently recognized only to the extent cash payments are received and the loan is returned to accruing status.
Certain non-accrual, substantially delinquent and renegotiated loans classified as troubled debt restructures may be considered to be impaired in accordance with ASC 310, Receivables. Under ASC 310-10, a loan is impaired when, based on current information or events, it is probable all amounts due (principal and interest) according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement are uncollectible. Renegotiated consumer loans classified as troubled debt restructures are considered to be impaired. In applying the provisions of ASC 310-10, the Corporation considers all other investments in one-to-four family residential loans and consumer installment loans to be homogeneous and therefore excluded from separate identification for evaluation of impairment. Impaired loans are carried at the fair value of collateral if the loan is collateral dependent, or the present value of estimated future cash flows using the loan’s existing rate. A portion of the allowance for loan losses is allocated to impaired loans if the value of such loans is deemed to be less than the unpaid balance. If these allocations cause the allowance for loan losses to increase, such increase is reported as a component of the provision for loan losses. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectability of the loan is confirmed. The valuation would be considered Level 3, consisting of appraisals of underlying collateral and discounted cash flow analysis.
On March 22, 2020, a statement was issued by the Bank's banking regulators and titled the “Interagency Statement on Loan Modifications and Reporting for Financial Institutions Working with Customers Affected by the Coronavirus” (the "Interagency Statement") that encourages financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers who are or may be unable to meet their contractual payment obligations due to the effects of COVID-19. Additionally, Section 4013 of the CARES Act further provides that a qualified loan modification is exempt by law from classification as a troubled debt restructure as defined by GAAP, from the period beginning March 1, 2020 until the earlier of December 31, 2020 or the date that is 60 days after the date on which the national emergency concerning the COVID-19 outbreak under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) terminates. The Interagency Statement was subsequently revised on April 7, 2020 to clarify the interaction of the original guidance with Section 4013 of the CARES Act, as well as setting forth the banking regulators’ views on consumer protection considerations. In accordance with such guidance, the Bank has offered short-term modifications made in response to COVID-19 to borrowers who were current and otherwise not past due. These included short-term, 180 days or less, modifications in the form of payment deferrals, fee waivers, extensions of repayment terms, or other delays in payment that are insignificant. On December 27, 2020, a $900 billion COVID-19 relief package, as passed by the U.S. Congress, was signed into law as part of the 2021 Consolidated Appropriations Act (“CAA”) that provides federal government funding through the end of its 2021 fiscal year. In addition to delivering direct stimulus payments to certain individuals, an increase in unemployment insurance benefits, an extension of the eviction moratorium, relief to the healthcare industry, and additional aid to various other businesses, the COVID-19-related provisions of the CAA provide for (i) an additional $284 billion in funding for the Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”), through March 31, 2021, (ii) an extension of the temporary delay for implementation of the CECL accounting standard, and (iii) further suspension of the troubled debt restructure assessment and reporting requirements for financial institutions under GAAP until the earlier of January 1, 2022, or 60 days after the termination of the national emergency. Details of the Corporation's modifications are included in the "LOAN QUALITY" section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included as Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Loan commitments and letters-of-credit generally have short-term, variable-rate features and contain clauses which limit the exposure to changes in customer credit quality. Accordingly, their carrying values, which are immaterial at the respective balance sheet dates, are reasonable estimates of fair value.
PURCHASED LOANS
Loans acquired in a business combination with evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is probable that all contractually required payments will not be collected are considered to be purchased credit impaired. Evidence of credit quality deterioration as of purchase dates may include information such as past-due and nonaccrual status, borrower credit risk grade and recent loan to value percentages. Purchased credit-impaired loans are accounted for under the accounting guidance for loans and debt securities acquired with deteriorated credit quality (ASC 310-30). These loans are initially measured at fair value based upon expected cash flows without anticipation of prepayments and includes estimated future credit losses expected to be incurred over the life of the loans. As a result, related discounts are recognized subsequently through accretion based on the expected cash flows of the acquired loans. For purposes of applying ASC 310-30, loans acquired in business combinations are individually evaluated for the initial fair value measurement. Accordingly, allowances for credit losses related to these loans are not carried over at the acquisition date.
The difference between contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition is referred to as the nonaccretable portion of the fair value discount or premium. The accretable portion of the fair value discount or premium is the difference between the expected cash flows and the net present value of expected cash flows, with such difference accreted into income over the term of the loans. Acquired loans not accounted for under ASC 310-30 are accounted for under ASC 310-20, which allows the fair value adjustment to be accreted into income over the remaining life of the loans.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES
The Corporation's allowance for loan losses is maintained to absorb losses inherent in the loan portfolio and is based on ongoing, quarterly assessments of the probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance is increased by the provision for loan losses, which is charged against current operating results. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectability of a loan is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. The Corporation’s strategy for credit risk management includes credit policies and underwriting criteria for all loans, as well as an overall credit limit for each customer significantly below legal lending limits. The strategy also emphasizes diversification on regional geographic and industry levels, regular credit quality reviews and management reviews of large credit exposures and loans experiencing deterioration of credit quality.
The Corporation’s methodology for assessing the appropriateness of the allowance consists of three key elements - the determination of the appropriate reserves for impaired loans accounted for under ASC 310-10, probable losses estimated from historical loss rates, and probable losses resulting from economic, environmental, qualitative or other deterioration above and beyond what is reflected in the first two components of the allowance.
Where appropriate, reserves are allocated to individual loans based on management’s estimate of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral, other sources of cash flow and legal options available to the Corporation. Loans individually evaluated for impairment are those deemed impaired in accordance with ASC 310-10, including commercial relationships greater than $500,000 that exhibit well defined credit weaknesses. Any allowances for impaired loans are measured based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, if collateral dependent, or the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate. The Corporation evaluates the collectability of principal when assessing the need for a loss accrual. Historical loss rates are applied to other commercial loans not subject to specific reserve allocations.
The historical allocation for commercial loans graded pass are established by loan segments using loss rates based on the Corporation’s migration analysis. This migration analysis shows the loss rates for each segment of loans based on the loan grades at the beginning of the twelve month period. This loss rate is then applied to the current portfolio of loans in each respective loan segment.
Homogenous loans, such as consumer installment and residential mortgage loans, are not individually risk graded. Reserves are established for each segment of loans using loss rates based on charge-offs for the same period as the migration analysis used for commercial loans.
In addition to the specific reserves and historical loss components of the allowance, consideration is given to various environmental factors to help ensure that losses inherent in the portfolio are reflected in the allowance for loan losses. Factors which management considers in the analysis include the effects of the national and local economies, trends in loan growth and charge-off rates, changes in mix, concentration of loans in specific industries, asset quality trends (delinquencies, charge-offs and non-accrual loans), risk management and loan administration, changes in the internal lending policies and credit standards, examination results from bank regulatory agencies and the Corporation’s internal loan review.
Effective January 1, 2021, the Corporation adopted ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Measurement of Current Expected Credit Losses on Financial Instruments ("CECL"), which will modify the accounting for the allowance for loan losses from an incurred loss model to an expected loss model, as discussed more fully below under the heading "NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS AND SEC RELEASES NOT YET ADOPTED" of this NOTE 1.
PENSION
Pension benefits are provided to the Corporation’s employees. Its accounting policies related to pensions and other post retirement benefits reflect the guidance in ASC 715, Compensation - Retirement Benefits. The Corporation does not consolidate the assets and liabilities associated with the pension plan. Instead, the Corporation recognizes the funded status of the plan in the consolidated balance sheets. The measurement of the funded status and the annual pension expense involves actuarial and economic assumptions. Various statistical and other factors, which attempt to anticipate future events, are used in calculating the expense and liabilities related to the plans. Key factors include assumptions on the expected rates of return on plan assets, discount rates, expected rates of salary increases and health care costs and trends. The Corporation considers market conditions, including changes in investment returns and interest rates in making these assumptions. The primary assumptions used in determining the Corporation’s pension and post retirement benefit obligations and related expenses are presented in NOTE 21. PENSION AND OTHER POST RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
Premises and equipment is carried at cost net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line and declining balance methods based on the estimated useful lives of the assets ranging from three to forty years. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred, while major additions and improvements, which extend the useful life, are capitalized. Gains and losses on dispositions are included in current operations.
LEASES
The Corporation leases certain land and premises from third parties and all are classified as operating leases. Effective January 1, 2019, operating leases are included in Other Assets and Other Liabilities on the Corporation's Consolidated Balance Sheets and lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Right of Use ("ROU") assets and liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the term. An ROU asset represents the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term and also includes any direct costs and payments made prior to lease commencement and excludes lease incentives. When an implicit rate is not available, an incremental borrowing rate based on the information available at commencement date is used in determining the present value of the lease payments. A lease term may include an option to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain the option will be exercised. Short-term leases of twelve months or less are excluded from accounting guidance; as a result, the lease payments are recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term and the leases are not reflected on the Corporation's Consolidated Balance Sheets. Renewal and termination options are considered when determining short-term leases. Leases are accounted for at the individual level.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK STOCK ("FHLB")
FHLB stock is a required investment for institutions that are members of the FHLB. The Bank is a member of the FHLB of Indianapolis. Members are required to own a certain amount of stock based on the level of borrowings and other factors, and may invest in additional amounts. FHLB stock is carried at cost, classified as a restricted security, and periodically evaluated for impairment based on ultimate recovery of par value. Both cash and stock dividends are reported as income.
INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Intangible assets that are subject to amortization, including core deposit intangibles, are being amortized on both the straight-line and accelerated basis over two to ten years. Intangible assets are periodically evaluated as to the recoverability of their carrying value.
GOODWILL
Goodwill is maintained by applying the provisions of ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. For purchase acquisitions, the Corporation is required to record the assets acquired, including identified intangible assets, and the liabilities assumed at their fair value, which in many instances involves estimates based on third party valuations, such as appraisals, or internal valuations based on discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation techniques that may include estimates of attrition, inflation, asset growth rates or other relevant factors. In addition, the determination of the useful lives for which an intangible asset will be amortized is subjective.
Under ASC 350, the Corporation is required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, as well as on an interim basis, if events or changes indicate that the asset may be impaired, indicating that the carrying value may not be recoverable. The Corporation completed its most recent annual goodwill impairment test as of October 1, 2020 and concluded, based on current events and circumstances goodwill is not impaired. Details of the Corporation's goodwill impairment test are included in NOTE 8. GOODWILL of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
BANK OWNED LIFE INSURANCE ("BOLI")
BOLI has been purchased on certain employees and directors of the Corporation to offset a portion of the employee benefit costs. The Corporation records the life insurance at the amount that can be realized under the insurance contract at the balance sheet date, which is the cash surrender value adjusted for other charges or amounts due that are probable at settlement. Changes in cash surrender values and death benefits received in excess of cash surrender values are reported in non-interest income. A corporate policy is in place with defined thresholds that limit the amount of credit, interest rate and liquidity risk inherent in a BOLI portfolio. The Corporation actively monitors the overall portfolio performance along with the credit quality of the insurance carriers and the credit quality and yield of the underlying investments.
OTHER REAL ESTATE OWNED ("OREO")
OREO consists of assets acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosure and are held for sale. They are initially recorded at fair value less cost to sell at the date of foreclosure, establishing a new cost basis. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed by management and the assets are carried at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Revenue and expenses from operations and changes in the valuation are included in other real estate owned and foreclosure expenses.
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS
Derivative instruments, which are recorded as assets or liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, are carried at fair value of the derivatives and reflects the estimated amounts that would have been received to terminate these contracts at the reporting date based upon pricing or valuation models applied to current market information. As part of the asset/liability management program, the Corporation will utilize, from time to time, interest rate floors, caps or swaps to reduce its sensitivity to interest rate fluctuations. Changes in the fair values of derivatives are reported in the consolidated statements of operations or AOCI depending on the use of the derivative and whether the instrument qualifies for hedge accounting. The key criterion for hedge accounting is that the hedged relationship must be highly effective in achieving offsetting changes in those cash flows that are attributable to the hedged risk, both at inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis.
Derivatives that qualify for the hedge accounting treatment are designated as either: (1) a hedge of the fair value of the recognized asset or liability, or of an unrecognized firm commitment (a fair value hedge); or (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (a cash flow hedge). To date, the Corporation has only entered into a cash flow hedge. For cash flow hedges, changes in the fair values of the derivative instruments are reported in AOCI to the extent the hedge is effective. The gains and losses on derivative instruments that are reported in AOCI are reflected in the consolidated statements of income in the periods in which the results of operations are impacted by the variability of the cash flows of the hedged item. Generally, net interest income is increased or decreased by amounts receivable or payable with respect to the derivatives, which qualify for hedge accounting. At inception of the hedge, the Corporation establishes the method it uses for assessing the effectiveness of the hedging derivative and the measurement approach for determining the ineffective aspect of the hedge. The ineffective portion of the hedge, if any, is recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The Corporation excludes the time value expiration of the hedge when measuring ineffectiveness.
The Corporation offers interest rate derivative products (e.g. interest rate swaps) to certain of its high-quality commercial borrowers. This product allows customers to enter into an agreement with the Corporation to swap their variable rate loan to a fixed rate. These derivative products are designed to reduce, eliminate or modify the risk of changes in the borrower’s interest rate or market price risk. The extension of credit incurred through the execution of these derivative products is subject to the same approvals and rigorous underwriting standards as the related traditional credit product. The Corporation limits its risk exposure to these products by entering into a mirror-image, offsetting swap agreement with a separate, well-capitalized and rated counterparty previously approved by the Credit and Asset Liability Committee. By using these interest rate swap arrangements, the Corporation is also better insulated from the interest rate risk associated with underwriting fixed-rate loans. These derivative contracts are not designated against specific assets or liabilities under ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and, therefore, do not qualify for hedge accounting. The derivatives are recorded on the balance sheet at fair value and changes in fair value of both the customer and the offsetting swap agreements are recorded (and essentially offset) in non-interest income. The fair value of the derivative instruments incorporates a consideration of credit risk (in accordance with ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures), resulting in some volatility in earnings each period.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
SECURITIES SOLD UNDER REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS
Securities sold under repurchase agreements represent securities the Corporation routinely sells to certain treasury management customers and then repurchases these securities the next day. Securities sold under repurchase agreements are reflected as secured borrowings in the consolidated balance sheets at the amount of cash received in connection with each transaction.
REVENUE RECOGNITION
Revenue recognition guidance was adopted by the Corporation on January 1, 2018. ASU 2014-09 establishes principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from the entity's contracts to provide goods or services to customers. The core principle requires an entity to recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration that it expects to be entitled to receive in exchange for those goods or services recognized as performance obligations are satisfied.
The majority of the Corporation's revenue-generating transactions are not subject to ASU 2014-09, including revenue generated from financial instruments, such as loans, letters of credit, derivatives and investment securities, as well as revenue related to mortgage servicing activities, as these activities are subject to other GAAP discussed elsewhere within the disclosures. The Corporation has evaluated the nature of its contracts
with customers and determined that further disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers into more granular categories beyond what is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income was not necessary. Descriptions of revenue-generating activities that are within the scope of ASU 2014-09, which are presented in our income statements are as follows:
Service charges on deposit accounts: The Corporation earns fees from its deposit customers for transaction-based, account maintenance and overdraft services. Transaction-based fees, which include services such as ATM use fees, stop payment charges, statement rendering and ACH fees, are recognized at the time the transaction is executed, which is the point in time the Corporation fulfills the customer's request. Account maintenance fees, which relate primarily to monthly maintenance, are earned monthly, representing the period which the Corporation satisfies the performance obligation. Overdraft fees are recognized at the point in time that the overdraft occurs. Service charges on deposits are withdrawn from the customer's account balance.
Fiduciary activities: This represents monthly fees due from wealth management customers as consideration for managing the customers' assets. Wealth management and trust services include custody of assets, investment management, fees for trust services and similar fiduciary activities. These fees are primarily earned over time as the Corporation provides the contracted monthly or quarterly services and are generally assessed based on the market value of assets under management at month-end. Fees that are transaction-based are recognized at the point in time that the transaction is executed.
Investment Brokerage Fees: The Corporation earns fees from investment brokerage services provided to its customers by a third-party service provider. The Corporation receives commissions from the third-party provider on a monthly basis based upon customer activity for the month. The fees are paid to us by the third party on a monthly basis and are recognized when received.
Interchange income: The Corporation earns interchange fees from debit and credit cardholder transactions conducted through the Visa and MasterCard payment networks. Interchange fees from cardholder transactions represent a percentage of the underlying transaction value and are recognized concurrent with the transaction processing services provided to the cardholder.
Gains (Losses) on Sales of OREO: The Corporation records a gain or loss from the sale of OREO when control of the property transfers to the buyer, which generally occurs at the time of an executed deed. When the Corporation finances the sale of OREO to the buyer, the Corporation assesses whether the buyer is committed to perform their obligations under the contract and whether collectability of the transaction price is probable. Once these criteria are met, the OREO asset is derecognized and the gain or loss on sale is recorded upon the transfer of control of the property to the buyer. In determining the gain or loss on the sale, the Corporation adjusts the transaction price and related gain (loss) on sale if a significant financing component is present.
TRANSFERS OF FINANCIAL ASSETS
Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales, when control over the assets has been surrendered, or in the case of a loan participation, a portion of the asset has been surrendered and meets the definition of a "participating interest." Control over transferred assets is deemed to be surrendered when (1) the assets have been isolated from the Corporation and put presumptively beyond the reach of the transferor and its creditors, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, (2) the transferee obtains the right (free of conditions that constrain it from taking advantage of that right) to pledge or exchange the transferred assets and (3) the Corporation does not maintain effective control over the transferred assets through an agreement to repurchase them before their maturity or the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return specific assets.
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
Stock option and restriced stock award plans are maintained by the Corporation. The compensation costs are recognized for stock options and restricted stock awards issued to employees and directors based on the fair value of these awards at the date of grant. A Black-Scholes model is utilized to estimate the fair value of stock options. The market price of the Corporation’s common stock at the date of grant is used for restricted stock awards. Compensation expense is recognized over the appropriate service period, which is generally two or three years.
INCOME TAX
Income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income is the total of the current year income tax due or refundable and the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts from the temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities, computed using enacted tax rates. A valuation allowance, if needed, reduces deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The Corporation files consolidated income tax returns with its subsidiaries. The Corporation is generally no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for tax years before 2017.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The Corporation adopted the provisions of the ASC 740, Income Taxes, which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. ASC 740 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. As a result of the implementation of ASC 740, the Corporation did not identify any uncertain tax positions that it believes should be recognized in the financial statements. The Corporation reviews income tax expense and the carrying value of deferred tax assets and liabilities quarterly; as new information becomes available, the balances are adjusted, if applicable. The Corporation's policy is to recognize interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits, if any, as a component of income tax expense.
NET INCOME PER SHARE
Net income per share is computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding. Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding, plus the dilutive effect of outstanding stock options and non-vested restricted stock.
IMPACT OF COVID-19
On January 30, 2020, the World Health Organization (“WHO”) announced that the outbreak of COVID-19 constituted a public health emergency of international concern. On March 11, 2020, WHO declared COVID-19 to be a global pandemic and, on March 13, 2020, the President of the United States declared the COVID-19 outbreak a national emergency. The health concerns relating to the COVID-19 outbreak and related governmental actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus have significantly impacted the global economy (including the states and local economies in which the Corporation operates), disrupted supply chains, lowered equity market valuations, and created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets. The outbreak has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place or total lock-down orders and business limitations and shutdowns. As a result of the shelter in place mandates in effect beginning early in the second quarter of 2020, commercial activity throughout our geographic footprint, as well as nationally, decreased significantly during 2020. Most states have reopened, albeit under limited capacities and under other social distancing restrictions; however, commercial activity has not returned to the levels existing prior to the outbreak of the pandemic. Such measures have significantly contributed to rising unemployment and negatively impacted consumer and business spending. As a result, the demand for the Corporation’s products and services has been, and will continue to be, significantly impacted.
RECENT ACCOUNTING CHANGES ADOPTED IN 2020
FASB Accounting Standards Updates No. 2018-15 - Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer's Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract
Summary - The FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2018-15, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement That Is a Service Contract, which reduces complexity for the accounting for costs of implementing a cloud computing service arrangement. This standard aligns the accounting for implementation costs of hosting arrangements, regardless of whether they convey a license to the hosted software. The ASU aligns the following requirements for capitalizing implementation costs:
•Those incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract, and
•Those incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal-use software license).
For calendar-year public companies, the changes were effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019. The Corporation adopted the standard in the first quarter of 2020 and adoption of the standard did not have a significant effect on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements.
FASB Accounting Standards Updates No. 2018-14 - Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans
Summary - The FASB issued ASU No. 2018-14, Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans, that applies to all employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans. The amendments modify the disclosure requirements for employers that sponsor defined benefit pension or other postretirement plans.
Disclosure Requirements Deleted
•The amounts in accumulated other comprehensive income expected to be recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year.
•The amount and timing of plan assets expected to be returned to the employer.
•Related party disclosures about the amount of future annual benefits covered by insurance and annuity contracts and significant transactions between the employer or related parties and the plan.
•For public entities, the effects of a one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates on the (a) aggregate of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs and (b) benefit obligation for postretirement health care benefits.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Disclosure Requirements Added
•An explanation of the reasons for significant gains and losses related to changes in the benefit obligation for the period.
The amendments also clarify the disclosure requirements in paragraph 715-20-50-3, which state that the following information for defined benefit pension plans should be disclosed:
•The projected benefit obligation (PBO) and fair value of plan assets for plans with PBOs in excess of plan assets, and
•The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) and fair value of plan assets for plans with ABOs in excess of plan assets.
ASU No. 2018-14 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2020, for public business entities and for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2021, for all other entities. Early adoption is permitted for all entities. The Corporation adopted the standard in the first quarter of 2020 and adoption of the standard did not have a significant effect on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements.
FASB Accounting Standards Updates No. 2018-13 - Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement
Summary - The FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement. ASU No. 2018-13 modifies the disclosure requirements on fair value measurements in Topic 820. Certain disclosure requirements related to transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy and Level 3 valuation process were removed from Topic 820. Disclosures were also added to Topic 820 for changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements held at the end of the reporting period and the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements.
In addition, the amendments eliminate "at a minimum" from the phrase “an entity shall disclose at a minimum” to promote the appropriate exercise of discretion by entities when considering fair value measurement disclosures and to clarify that materiality is an appropriate consideration of entities and their auditors when evaluating disclosure requirements.
The amendments in ASU No. 2018-13 were effective for all entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The amendments on changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements, and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty were applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption. All other amendments were applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. Early adoption was permitted. An entity was permitted to early adopt any removed or modified disclosures upon issuance of ASU No. 2018-13 and delay adoption of the additional disclosures until their effective date. The Corporation adopted the standard in the first quarter of 2020 and adoption of the standard did not have a significant effect on the Corporation’s disclosures.
FASB Accounting Standards Updates No. 2017-04 - Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment.
Summary - The FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill, which simplifies how an entity is required to test goodwill for impairment. To simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill, the ASU eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. The annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. An impairment charge should be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. In addition, the income tax effects of tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit should be considered when measuring the goodwill impairment loss, if applicable. The amendments also eliminate the requirements for any reporting unit with a zero or negative carrying amount to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test. An entity still has the option to perform the qualitative assessment for a reporting unit to determine if the qualitative impairment test is necessary.
The amendments were applied on a prospective basis. The Corporation adopted ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill, January 1, 2020 and assessed the recent economic impact and market conditions from the COVID-19 pandemic. At September 30, 2020 and December 31, 2020, the Corporation performed a goodwill impairment test which included various valuation considerations including comparable peer data, precedent transaction comparables, discounted cash flow analysis, overall financial performance, share price of the Corporation's common stock and other factors. The testing resulted in a conclusion that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of the Corporation had declined below its carrying value; therefore, goodwill was not impaired at September 30, 2020 or December 31, 2020. Goodwill assessments are highly sensitive to economic projections and the related assumptions used by management. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn or further deterioration in the economic outlook, continued assessments of our goodwill balance will likely be required in future periods. Details of the goodwill impairment test are included in NOTE 8. GOODWILL of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Guidance on Non-TDR Loan Modifications due to COVID-19
On March 22, 2020, a statement was issued by the Bank's banking regulators and titled the “Interagency Statement on Loan Modifications and Reporting for Financial Institutions Working with Customers Affected by the Coronavirus” (the "Interagency Statement") that encourages financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers who are or may be unable to meet their contractual payment obligations due to the effects of COVID-19. Additionally, Section 4013 of the CARES Act further provides that a qualified loan modification is exempt by law from classification as a troubled debt restructure as defined by GAAP, from the period beginning March 1, 2020 until the earlier of December 31, 2020 or the date that is 60 days after the date on which the national emergency concerning the COVID-19 outbreak under the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) terminates. The Interagency Statement was subsequently revised on April 7, 2020 to clarify the interaction of the original guidance with Section 4013 of the CARES Act, as well as setting forth the banking regulators’ views on consumer protection considerations. In accordance with such guidance, the Bank has offered short-term modifications made in response to COVID-19 to borrowers who were current and otherwise not past due. These included short-term, 180 days or less, modifications in the form of payment deferrals, fee waivers, extensions of repayment terms, or other delays in payment that are insignificant. On December 27, 2020, a $900 billion COVID-19 relief package, as passed by the U.S. Congress, was signed into law as part of the 2021 Consolidated Appropriations Act (“CAA”) that provides federal government funding through the end of its 2021 fiscal year. In addition to delivering direct stimulus payments to certain individuals, an increase in unemployment insurance benefits, an extension of the eviction moratorium, relief to the healthcare industry, and additional aid to various other businesses, the COVID-19-related provisions of the CAA provide for (i) an additional $284 billion in funding for the Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”), through March 31, 2021, (ii) an extension of the temporary delay for implementation of the CECL accounting standard, and (iii) further suspension of the troubled debt restructure assessment and reporting requirements for financial institutions under GAAP. Details of the Corporation's modifications are included in the "LOAN QUALITY" section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included as Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS NOT YET ADOPTED
The Corporation continually monitors potential accounting pronouncement and SEC release changes. The following pronouncements and releases have been deemed to have the most applicability to the Corporation's financial statements:
FASB Accounting Standards Updates No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments
Summary - The FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. This new guidance was issued to address concerns that current generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") restricts the ability to record credit losses that are expected, but do not yet meet the “probable” threshold by replacing the current “incurred loss” model for recognizing credit losses with an “expected life of loan loss” model referred to as the Current Expected Credit Loss ("CECL") model.
Under the CECL model, certain financial assets carried at amortized cost, such as loans held for investment and held-to-maturity debt securities, are required to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is to be based on information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectability of the reported amount. This measurement will take place at the time the financial asset is first added to the balance sheet and periodically thereafter. This differs significantly from the “incurred loss” model required under current GAAP, which delays recognition until it is probable a loss has been incurred. The change could materially affect how the allowance for loan losses is determined and cause a charge/credit to earnings through the provision for loan losses. Such could create volatility in earnings and could adversely affect the financial condition of the Corporation.
The Corporation developed models that satisfy the requirements of the new standard which are governed by a system of internal controls and a cross-functional working group consisting of accounting, finance, and credit administration personnel. The loan portfolio was pooled into ten loan segments with similar risk characteristics for which the probability of default/loss given default methodology was applied. The Corporation utilized a one-year economic forecast period then reverted to historical macroeconomic levels for the remaining life of the portfolio. A baseline macroeconomic scenario, along with other scenarios, was used to develop a range of estimated credit losses for which to determine the best estimate within.
The ASU was effective for SEC filers for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Pursuant to the CARES Act and the related joint statement of federal banking regulators (which also became effective as of March 27, 2020), and consistent with guidance from the SEC and FASB, the Corporation elected to delay implementation of ASU No. 2016-13, which was set to expire on December 31, 2020. However, the CAA (as discussed above) extended the temporary relief from CECL compliance to the earlier of the first day of the fiscal year that begins after the date on which the national emergency concerning COVID-19 terminates, or January 1, 2022. The Corporation elected to delay implementation of CECL following the approval of the CARES Act and, with the enactment of the CAA, the Corporation has elected to further delay adoption of CECL to January 1, 2021. This will allow the Corporation to utilize the CECL standard for the entire year of adoption. As a result of the Corporation’s election, its 2020 financial statements have been prepared under the existing incurred loss model.
As of the adoption and day one measurement date of January 1, 2021, the Corporation recorded a one-time cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings, net of income taxes, on the consolidated balance sheet. The allowance increased 57 percent from December 31, 2020 because it covered expected credit losses over the life of the loan portfolio, which approximates four years, and it included an allowance on all purchased loans that were previously excluded from the allowance for loan losses calculation. CECL also requires the establishment of a reserve for potential losses from unfunded commitments that is recorded in other liabilities, separate from allowance for credit losses, which was approximately $21 million. Also as required by CECL, the Corporation reviewed the held-to-maturity debt securities portfolio and determined the expected losses were immaterial.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
FASB Accounting Standards Updates No. 2019-11 - Codification Improvements to (Topic 326): Financial Instruments - Credit Losses
Summary - The FASB issued ASU No. 2019-11, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses in order to address issues raised by stakeholders during the implementation of ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses of Financial Instruments.
Among other narrow-scope improvements, the new ASU clarifies guidance around how to report expected recoveries. “Expected recoveries” describes a situation in which an organization recognizes a full or partial write-off of the amortized cost basis of a financial asset, but then later determines that the amount written off, or a portion of that amount, will in fact be recovered. While applying the credit losses standard, stakeholders questioned whether expected recoveries were permitted on assets that had already shown credit deterioration at the time of purchase (also known as PCD assets). In response to this question, the ASU permits organizations to record expected recoveries on PCD assets. In addition to other narrow technical improvements, the ASU also reinforces existing guidance that prohibits organizations from recording negative allowances for available-for-sale debt securities.
The ASU includes effective dates and transition requirements that vary depending on whether or not an entity has already adopted ASU No. 2016-13. As discussed above, pursuant to the CARES Act, the Corporation elected to defer the adoption of CECL. Additionally, the 2021 Consolidated Appropriations Act ("CAA"), signed into law on December 27, 2020, amended the CARES Act by extending the temporary relief from CECL compliance to the earlier of the first day of the fiscal year that begins after the date on which the national emergency concerning COVID-19 terminates, or January 1, 2022. The Corporation elected to delay implementation of CECL following the approval of the CARES Act and, with the enactment of the CAA, the Corporation has elected to further delay adoption of CECL to January 1, 2021. The Corporation is not expecting adoption of the standard to have a significant effect on the Corporation’s consolidated financial statements or disclosures.
FASB Accounting Standards Updates - No. 2020-04 - Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848): Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting
Summary - The FASB issued ASU No. 2020-04 to provide temporary optional guidance to ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform. LIBOR and other interbank offered rates are widely used benchmarks or reference rates in the United States and globally. Trillions of dollars in loans, derivatives, and other financial contracts reference LIBOR, the benchmark interest rate banks use to make short-term loans to each other. With global capital markets expected to move away from LIBOR and other interbank offered rates and move toward rates that are more observable or transaction based and less susceptible to manipulation, the FASB launched a broad project in late 2018 to address potential accounting challenges expected to arise from the transition. The new guidance provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying generally accepted accounting principles to contract modifications and hedging relationships, subject to meeting certain criteria, that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued. The ASU is intended to help stakeholders during the global market-wide reference rate transition period.
Entities may apply this ASU as of the beginning of an interim period that includes the March 12, 2020 issuance date of the ASU, through December 31, 2022. The Corporation expects to adopt the practical expedients included in the ASU prior to December 31, 2022. The Corporation is implementing a transition plan to identify and modify its loans and other financial instruments with attributes that are either directly or indirectly influenced by LIBOR. The Corporation is assessing ASU 2020-04 and its impact on the Corporation's transition away from LIBOR for its loans and other financial instruments.
NOTE 2
ACQUISITIONS
Hoosier Trust Company
On November 9, 2020, the Corporation announced the signing of a definitive agreement by which the Bank would acquire Hoosier Trust Company ("Hoosier") through a merger of Hoosier with and into the Bank. The consideration to be paid to the shareholders of Hoosier at closing is $3,225,000 in cash. Closing of the acquisition remains subject to required regulatory approval and is expected in the second quarter of 2021.
MBT Financial Corp.
On September 1, 2019, the Corporation acquired 100 percent of MBT. MBT, a Michigan corporation, merged with and into the Corporation, whereupon the separate corporate existence of MBT ceased and the Corporation survived. Immediately following the merger, MBT's wholly-owned subsidiary, Monroe Bank & Trust, merged with and into the Bank, with the Bank continuing as the surviving bank.
MBT was headquartered in Monroe, Michigan and had 20 banking centers serving the Monroe market. Pursuant to the merger agreement, each MBT shareholder received 0.275 shares of the Corporation's common stock for each outstanding share of MBT common stock held. The Corporation issued approximately 6.4 million shares of common stock, which was valued at approximately $229.9 million. The Corporation engaged in this transaction with the expectation that it would be accretive to income and add a new market area in Michigan that has a demographic profile consistent with many of the current Indiana and Ohio markets served by the Bank. Goodwill resulted from this transaction due to the expected synergies and economies of scale.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Under the acquisition method of accounting, the total purchase price is allocated to net tangible and intangible assets based on their current estimated fair values on the date of the acquisition. Based on valuations of the fair value of tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which are based on assumptions that are subject to change based on the timing of the transaction, the purchase price for the MBT acquisition is detailed in the following table.
Of the total purchase price, $16,527,000 was allocated to a core deposit intangible, which will be amortized over its estimated life of 10 years. The remaining purchase price was allocated to goodwill, which is not deductible for tax purposes.
Acquired loan data for MBT is included in the following table:
Purchased loans with evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at the date of acquisition that the acquirer will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are accounted for under ASC 310-30, Loans Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality. The difference between contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. The accretable portion of the fair value discount or premium is the difference between the expected cash flows and the net present value of expected cash flows, with such difference accreted into earnings over the term of the loans.
Pro Forma Financial Information
The results of operations of MBT have been included in the Corporation's consolidated financial statements since the acquisition date. The following schedule includes pro forma results for the year ended December 31, 2019, as if the MBT acquisition occurred as of the beginning of the period presented.
The pro forma information includes adjustments for interest income on loans and investments, interest expense on deposits and borrowings, premises expense for banking centers acquired and amortization of intangibles arising from the transaction and the related income tax effects. The pro forma information for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes operating revenue from MBT of $19.7 million since the date of acquisition. Additionally, $19.7 million, net of tax, of non-recurring expenses directly attributable to the MBT acquisition were included in the year ended December 31, 2019 pro forma information.
The pro forma information is presented for informational purposes only and is not indicative of the results of operations that actually would have been achieved had the acquisition been consummated as of that time, or intended to be a projection of future results.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 3
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
The Corporation considers all liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2020, cash and cash equivalents is defined to include cash on hand, deposits in other institutions and federal funds sold.
At December 31, 2020, the Corporation’s interest-bearing cash accounts and noninterest-bearing transaction deposits held at other institutions exceeded the $250,000 federally insured limits by approximately $384,234,000. Each correspondent bank’s financial performance and market rating are reviewed on a quarterly basis to ensure the Corporation has deposits only at institutions providing minimal risk for those exceeding the federally insured limits.
Additionally, the Corporation had approximately $140,317,000 at the Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank, which are government-sponsored entities not insured by the FDIC.
The Corporation has historically been required to maintain reserve funds in cash and/or on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank. However, the Federal Reserve announced on March 15, 2020 that in order to support the flow of credit to households and businesses, reserve requirement ratios would move to zero effective March 26, 2020; therefore, the Corporation did not have a reserve requirement at December 31, 2020.
NOTE 4
INVESTMENT SECURITIES
The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and approximate fair value of the Corporation's investment securities at the dates indicated were:
The change in unrealized gains/losses from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 is primarily due to the changes in interest rates. The
longer term points on the yield curve have declined since year-end which increases the fair value of securities held in the portfolio.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The following table shows the Corporation’s gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by investment category and length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019
Certain investments in debt securities are reported in the financial statements at amounts less than their historical cost. The historical cost of these investments totaled $81,482,000 and $398,172,000 at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Total fair value of these investments was $80,881,000 and $395,416,000, which was approximately 2.6 and 15.2 percent of the Corporation's available for sale and held to maturity investment portfolio at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The Corporation's management believes the decline in fair value for these securities was temporary. Should the impairment of any of these securities become other-than-temporary, the cost basis of the investment will be reduced and the resulting loss recognized in net income during the period the OTTI is identified. The Corporation’s management has evaluated all securities with unrealized losses for OTTI and concluded no OTTI existed at December 31, 2020.
In determining the fair value of the investment securities portfolio, the Corporation utilizes a third party for portfolio accounting services, including market value input, for those securities classified as Level I and Level II in the fair value hierarchy. The Corporation has obtained an understanding of what inputs are being used by the vendor in pricing the portfolio and how the vendor classified these securities based upon these inputs. From these discussions, the Corporation’s management is comfortable that the classifications are proper. The Corporation has gained trust in the data for two reasons: (a) independent spot testing of the data is conducted by the Corporation through obtaining market quotes from various brokers on a periodic basis; and (b) actual gains or loss resulting from the sale of certain securities has proven the data to be accurate over time. Fair value of securities classified as Level 3 in the valuation hierarchy was determined using a discounted cash flow model that incorporated market estimates of interest rates and volatility in markets that have not been active.
U.S. Government-Sponsored Mortgage-Backed Securities
The unrealized losses on the Corporation's investment in mortgage-backed securities were a result of interest rate changes. The Corporation expects to recover the amortized cost basis over the term of the securities. Because the decline in market value is attributable to changes in interest rates and not credit quality, and because the Corporation does not intend to sell the investments and it is not more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis, which may be maturity, the Corporation does not consider those investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2020. As noted in the table above, the mortgage-backed securities portfolio contains unrealized losses of $103,000 on five securities and $107,000 on three securities in the available for sale and held to maturity portfolios, respectively. All these securities are issued by a government-sponsored entity.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
State and Municipal Securities and U.S. Government-Sponsored Agency Securities
The unrealized losses on the Corporation's investments in securities of state and political subdivisions and U.S. Government-Sponsored Agency securities were caused by interest rate increases. The contractual terms of those investments do not permit the issuer to settle the securities at a price less than the amortized cost basis of the investments. Because the Corporation does not intend to sell the investments and it is not more likely than not that the Corporation will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis, which may be maturity, the Corporation does not consider those investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2020. As noted in the previous table, the state and municipal securities portfolio contains unrealized losses of $246,000 on four securities and $32,000 on two securities in the available for sale and held to maturity portfolios, respectively. The U.S. Government-Sponsored Agency securities portfolio contains no unrealized loses in the available for sale portfolio, and $113,000 on two securities in the held to maturity portfolio.
The amortized cost and fair value of securities available for sale and held to maturity by contractual maturity are shown below. Expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities because issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
Securities with a carrying value of approximately $890,025,000, $503,427,000 and $416,155,000 were pledged at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, to secure certain deposits and securities sold under repurchase agreements, and for other purposes as permitted or required by law. In order to facilitate the funding of PPP loans, the Bank pledged securities to the Discount Window at the Federal Reserve Bank resulting in the increase in pledged securities at December 31, 2020 compared to December 31, 2019.
The book value of securities sold under agreements to repurchase amounted to $167,265,000 at December 31, 2020 and $182,856,000 at
December 31, 2019.
Gross gains and losses on the sales and redemptions of available for sale securities for the years indicated are shown below.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 5
LOANS AND ALLOWANCE
Loans are stated at the amount of unpaid principal, reduced by deferred income (net of costs). Interest on loans is recognized using the simple interest method on the daily balances of the principal amounts outstanding. Loan origination fees, net of direct loan origination costs, and commitment fees are deferred and amortized as an adjustment to yield over the life of the loan, or over the commitment period, as applicable. The Corporation’s primary lending focus is small business and middle market commercial, commercial real estate and residential real estate, which results in portfolio diversification. The following tables show the composition of the loan portfolio, the allowance for loan losses and credit quality characteristics by collateral classification, excluding loans held for sale. Loans held for sale at December 31, 2020 and 2019, were $4.0 million and $9.0 million, respectively.
The following table illustrates the composition of the Corporation’s loan portfolio by loan class for the years indicated:
On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) was signed into law, providing an approximate $2 trillion stimulus package that includes direct payments to individual taxpayers, economic stimulus to significantly impacted industry sectors, emergency funding for hospitals and providers, small business loans, increased unemployment benefits, and a variety of tax incentives. For small businesses, eligible nonprofits and certain others, the CARES Act established a Paycheck Protection Program (“PPP”), which is administered by the Small Business Administration (“SBA”). On April 24, 2020, the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act was enacted. Among other things, this legislation amends the initial CARES Act program by raising the appropriation level for PPP loans from $349 billion to $670 billion. The PPP was further modified on June 5, 2020 with the adoption of the Paycheck Protection Program Flexibility Act ("the Flexibility Act"), which extended the maturity date for PPP loans from two years to five years for loans disbursed on or after the date of enactment of the Flexibility Act. For PPP loans disbursed prior to such enactment, the Flexibility Act permits the borrower and lender to mutually agree to extend the term of the loan to five years. The Bank has actively participated in assisting its customers with applications for resources through the program. PPP loans earn interest at a fixed rate of 1 percent and primarily have a two year term. The Bank anticipates that the majority of these loans will ultimately be forgiven, in whole or in part, by the SBA as, in accordance with the terms of the PPP, the loans are fully guaranteed by the SBA. As of December 31, 2020, the Bank had over 4,400 PPP loans, primarily in the commercial and industrial loan class, totaling $667.1 million, which is net of $12.5 million of deferred processing fee income and costs. The weighted-average deferred processing fee on PPP loans was approximately 3.09 percent and is recognized over the term of the loan. If a loan is forgiven by the SBA or paid off by the borrower prior to maturity, any unamortized portion of the fee will be recognized immediately. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Corporation recognized interest income on PPP loans of $6.2 million and $16.2 million of PPP loan related deferred processing fee income as a yield adjustment.
The Bank borrowed from the Paycheck Protection Program Liquidity Facility ("PPPL Facility") to supplement liquidity to fund the PPP loans in the second quarter 2020. At December 31, 2020, the Corporation did not have an outstanding balance with the PPPL Facility.
Allowance, Credit Quality and Loan Portfolio
Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit losses on Financial Instruments ("CECL") had an original adoption date of January 1, 2020, which included a day 1 measurement date of January 1, 2020. The CARES Act, passed by Congress on March 27, 2020 in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, created an optional deferral of the CECL adoption date. Pursuant to the CARES Act and the related joint statement of federal banking regulators (which also became effective as of March 27, 2020), and consistent with guidance from the SEC and FASB, the Corporation elected to delay implementation of ASU No. 2016-13, which was set to expire on December 31, 2020. However, the 2021 Consolidated Appropriations Act ("CAA"), signed into law on December 27, 2020, amended the CARES Act by extending the temporary relief from CECL compliance to the earlier of the first day of the fiscal year that begins after the date on which the national emergency concerning COVID-19 terminates, or January 1, 2022. The Corporation elected to delay implementation of CECL following the approval of the CARES Act and, with the enactment of the CAA, the Corporation has elected to further delay adoption of CECL to January 1, 2021. As a result of the Corporation’s election, its 2020 financial statements have been prepared under the existing incurred loss model.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The Corporation maintains an allowance for loan losses to cover probable credit losses identified during its loan review process. Management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to cover probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2020. The process for determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is critical to the Corporation’s financial results. It requires management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments to estimate the effect of uncertain matters. The allowance for loan losses considers current factors, including economic conditions and ongoing internal and external examinations, and will increase or decrease as deemed necessary to ensure it remains adequate. In addition, the allowance as a percentage of charge-offs and nonperforming loans will change at different points in time based on credit performance, portfolio mix and collateral values.
The allowance for loan losses is maintained through the provision for loan losses, which is a charge against earnings. The allowance is increased by provision expense and decreased by charge-offs less recoveries. All charge-offs are approved by the Bank's senior credit officers and in accordance with established policies. The Bank charges off a loan when a determination is made that all or a portion of the loan is uncollectible. The amount provided for loan losses in a given period may be greater than or less than net loan losses experienced during the period, and is based on management’s judgment as to the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses. The determination of the provision amount is based on management’s ongoing review and evaluation of the loan portfolio, including an internally administered loan "watch" list and independent loan reviews. The evaluation takes into consideration identified credit problems, the possibility of losses inherent in the loan portfolio that are not specifically identified and management’s judgment as to the impact of the current environment and economic conditions on the portfolio.
The allowance consists of specific impairment reserves as required by ASC 310-10-35, a component for historical losses in accordance with ASC 450 and the consideration of current environmental factors in accordance with ASC 450. A loan is deemed impaired when, based on current information or events, it is probable that all amounts due of principal and interest according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collected.
The historical loss allocation for loans not deemed impaired according to ASC 450 is the product of the volume of loans within the non-impaired criticized and non-criticized risk grade classifications, each segmented by call code, and the historical loss factor for each respective classification and call code segment. The historical loss factors are based upon actual loss experience within each risk and call code classification. The historical look back period for non-criticized loans looks to the most recent rolling-four-quarter average and aligns with the look back period for non-impaired criticized loans. Each of the rolling four quarter periods used to obtain the average, include all charge-offs for the previous twelve-month period, therefore the historical look back period includes seven quarters. Criticized loans are grouped based on the risk grade assigned to the loan. Loans with a special mention grade are assigned a loss factor, and loans with a classified grade but not impaired are assigned a separate loss factor. The loss factor computation for this allocation includes a segmented historical loss migration analysis of risk grades to charge-off.
In addition to the specific reserves and historical loss components of the allowance, consideration is given to various environmental factors to ensure that losses inherent in the portfolio are reflected in the allowance for loan losses. Environmental factors that management reviews in the analysis include: national and local economic trends and conditions; trends in growth in the loan portfolio and growth in higher risk areas; levels of, and trends in, delinquencies and non-accruals; experience and depth of lending management and staff; adequacy of, and adherence to, lending policies and procedures including those for underwriting; industry concentrations of credit; and adequacy of risk identification systems and controls through the internal loan review and internal audit processes.
In conformance with ASC 805 and ASC 820, loans purchased after December 31, 2008 are recorded at the acquisition date fair value. Such loans are included in the allowance to the extent a specific impairment is identified that exceeds the fair value adjustment on an impaired loan or the historical loss and environmental factor analysis indicates losses inherent in a purchased portfolio exceeds the fair value adjustment on the portion of the purchased portfolio not deemed impaired.
At December 31, 2020, the allowance for loan losses was $130.6 million, an increase of $50.3 million from the December 31, 2019 balance of $80.3 million. Net charge-offs for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, were $8.3 million, an increase of $5.2 million from the same period in 2019. The provision for loan losses for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 was $58.7 million, an increase of $55.9 million from the same period in 2019. The determination of the provision for loan losses in any period is based on management’s continuing review and evaluation of the loan portfolio, and its judgment as to the impact of current economic conditions on the portfolio.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The following tables summarize changes in the allowance for loan losses by loan segment for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018:
The tables below show the Corporation’s allowance for loan losses and loan portfolio by loan segment for the years indicated.
Loans individually evaluated for impairment are comprised of commercial and consumer loans deemed impaired in accordance with ASC 310-10. This includes loans acquired with subsequent deterioration of credit quality totaling $1.3 million with $557,000 of related allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2020 and $2.8 million with $124,000 related allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2019.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The risk characteristics of the Corporation’s material portfolio segments are as follows:
Commercial
Commercial lending is primarily based on the identified cash flows of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The cash flows of borrowers, however, may not be as expected and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Most commercial loans are secured by the tangible assets being financed such as equipment or real estate or other business assets such as accounts receivable or inventory and may incorporate a personal guarantee. Other loans may be unsecured, secured but under-collateralized or otherwise made on the basis of the enterprise value of an organization. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers.
Commercial real estate
These loans are viewed primarily as cash flow loans and secondarily as loans secured by real estate. Commercial real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts and the repayment of these loans is generally dependent on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. Commercial real estate loans may be more adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the general economy. Management monitors and evaluates commercial real estate loans based on collateral and risk grade criteria. In addition, management tracks the level of owner-occupied commercial real estate loans versus non-owner occupied loans.
Consumer and Residential
With respect to residential loans that are secured by 1-4 family residences, which are typically owner occupied, the Corporation generally establishes a maximum loan-to-value ratio and requires private mortgage insurance if that ratio is exceeded. Home equity loans are secured by a subordinate interest in 1-4 family residences, and consumer loans are secured by consumer assets such as automobiles or recreational vehicles. Some consumer loans, such as small installment loans and certain lines of credit, are unsecured. Repayment of these loans is primarily dependent on the personal income and credit rating of the borrowers, which can be impacted by economic conditions in their market areas such as unemployment levels. Repayment on loans secured by 1-4 family residences can be impacted by changes in property values. Risk is mitigated by the fact that the loans are of smaller individual amounts and spread over a large number of borrowers.
Loans are reclassified to a non-accruing status when, in management’s judgment, the collateral value and financial condition of the borrower do not justify accruing interest. When the interest accrual is discontinued, all unpaid accrued interest is reversed against earnings when considered uncollectible. Payments subsequently received on non-accrual loans are applied to principal. A loan is returned to accrual status when principal and interest are no longer past due and collectability is probable, typically after a minimum of six consecutive months of performance. Payments received on impaired accruing or delinquent loans are applied to interest income as accrued.
The following table summarizes the Corporation’s non-accrual loans by loan class for the years indicated:
Impaired loans include loans deemed impaired according to the guidance set forth in ASC 310-10. Commercial loans under $500,000 and
consumer loans, with the exception of troubled debt restructures, are not individually evaluated for impairment.
Allowable methods for determining the amount of impairment include estimating fair value using the fair value of the collateral for collateral dependent loans. If the impaired loan is identified as collateral dependent, then the fair value method for measuring the amount of impairment is utilized. This method requires obtaining a current independent appraisal of the collateral and applying a discount factor, which includes selling costs if applicable, to the value. The fair value of real estate is generally based on appraisals by qualified licensed appraisers. The appraisers typically determine the value of the real estate by utilizing an income or market valuation approach. If an appraisal is not available, the fair value may be determined by using a cash flow analysis. Fair value on other collateral such as business assets is typically ascertained by assessing, either singularly or some combination of, asset appraisals, accounts receivable aging reports, inventory listings and or customer financial statements. Both appraised values and values based on borrower’s financial information are discounted as considered appropriate based on age and quality of the information and current market conditions.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The following tables show the composition of the Corporation’s impaired loans, related allowance and interest income recognized while impaired by loan class for the years indicated:
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Impaired loans in the above tables do not include loans accounted for under ASC 310-30, or any other loan, unless deemed impaired in
accordance with ASC 310-10.
As part of the ongoing monitoring of the credit quality of the Corporation's loan portfolio, management tracks certain credit quality indicators including trends related to: (i) the level of criticized commercial loans, (ii) net charge-offs, (iii) non-performing loans, (iv) covenant failures and (v) the general national and local economic conditions.
The Corporation utilizes a risk grading of pass, special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss to assess the overall credit quality of large commercial loans. All large commercial credit grades are reviewed at a minimum of once a year for pass grade loans. Loans with grades below pass are reviewed more frequently depending on the grade. A description of the general characteristics of these grades is as follows:
•Pass - Loans that are considered to be of acceptable credit quality.
•Special Mention - Loans which have a potential weaknesses that deserve management’s close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in the deterioration of the repayment prospects for the asset or in the institution’s credit position at some future date. Special Mention assets are not adversely classified and do not expose an institution to sufficient risk to warrant adverse classification.
•Substandard - Loans are inadequately protected by the current sound worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. Loans so classified must have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the bank will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected.
•Doubtful - Loans will have all the weaknesses inherent in those classified Substandard with the added characteristics that the weakness make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently known facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and improbable.
•Loss - Loans are considered uncollectible and of such little value that their continuation as bankable assets is not warranted. This classification does not mean that the loan has absolutely no recovery or salvage value but rather it is not practical or desirable to defer writing off this basically worthless asset even though partial recovery may be effected in the future.
The following tables summarize the credit quality of the Corporation’s loan portfolio, by loan class for the years indicated. Consumer non-performing loans include accruing consumer loans 90-days or more delinquent and consumer non-accrual loans. The entire balance of a loan is considered delinquent if the minimum payment contractually required to be made is not received by the specified date. Loans that evidenced deterioration of credit quality since origination and the probability, at acquisition, that all contractually required payments would not be collected are included in the applicable categories below.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The tables below show a past due aging of the Corporation’s loan portfolio, by loan class, for the years indicated:
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
On occasion, borrowers experience declines in income and cash flow. As a result, these borrowers seek to reduce contractual cash outlays including debt payments. Concurrently, in an effort to preserve and protect its earning assets, specifically troubled loans, the Corporation works to maintain its relationship with certain customers who are experiencing financial difficulty by contractually modifying the borrower's debt agreement with the Corporation. In certain loan restructuring situations, the Corporation may grant a concession to a debtor experiencing financial difficulty, resulting in a trouble debt restructuring. A concession is deemed to be granted when, as a result of the restructuring, the Corporation does not expect to collect all original amounts due, including interest accrued at the original contract rate. If the payment of principal at original maturity is primarily dependent on the value of collateral, the current value of the collateral is considered in determining whether the principal will be paid.
The following tables summarize troubled debt restructures in the Corporation's loan portfolio that occurred during the periods ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The following tables summarize the recorded investment of troubled debt restructures as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, by modification type, that occurred during the years indicated:
Loans secured by 1- 4 family residential real estate made up 70 percent of the post-modification balances of the troubled debt restructured loans that occurred during the twelve months ending December 31, 2020. The same classification made up 100 percent of the post-modification balance of the troubled debt restructured loans for the twelve months ending December 31, 2019.
The following tables summarize troubled debt restructures that occurred during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, that subsequently defaulted during the period indicated and remained in default at period end. For purposes of this schedule, a loan is considered in default if it is 30-days or more past due.
For potential consumer loan restructures, impairment evaluation occurs prior to modification. Any subsequent impairment is addressed through the charge-off process or through a specific reserve. Consumer troubled debt restructures are generally included in the general historical allowance for loan loss at the post modification balance. Consumer non-accrual and delinquent troubled debt restructures are also considered in the calculation of the non-accrual and delinquency trend environmental allowance allocation. Consumer loans secured by residential real estate properties for which formal foreclosure proceedings are in process totaled $2.8 million and $1.0 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Commercial troubled debt restructured loans risk graded special mention, substandard, doubtful and loss are individually evaluated for impairment under ASC 310. Any resulting specific reserves are included in the allowance for loan losses. Commercial 30 - 89 day delinquent troubled debt restructures are included in the calculation of the delinquency trend environmental allowance allocation. With the exception of the acquired loans excluded from the allowance for loan losses, all commercial non-impaired loans, including non-accrual and 90-days or more delinquents, are included in the ASC 450 loss estimate.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 6
ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN LOANS ACQUIRED IN A PURCHASE
Purchase Credit Impaired Loans are included in NOTE 5. LOANS AND ALLOWANCE of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As described in NOTE 5, purchased loans are recorded at the acquisition date fair value, which could result in a fair value discount or premium. Purchased loans with evidence of credit deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at the date of acquisition that the acquirer will not collect all contractually required principal and interest payments are accounted for under ASC 310-30, Loans Acquired with Deteriorated Credit Quality. The difference between contractually required payments and the cash flows expected to be collected at acquisition is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. The accretable portion of the fair value discount or premium is the difference between the expected cash flows and the net present value of expected cash flows, with such difference accreted into earnings over the term of the loans.
The outstanding balance of purchased credit impaired loans as of December 31, 2020 was $15.6 million which had a carrying amount of $9.6 million and $557,000 of related allowance for loan losses. As of December 31, 2019, the outstanding balance of purchased credit impaired loans was $25.3 million with a carrying amount of $16.1 million with $124,000 required allowance for loan losses. As customer cash flow expectations improve, nonaccretable yield can be reclassified to accretable yield. The accretable amount, or income expected to be collected, and reclassifications from nonaccretable, are identified in the table below.
No loans were acquired during the period ending December 31, 2020. The following table presents loans acquired during the period ending December 31, 2019, for which it was probable at acquisition that all contractually required payments would not be collected.
NOTE 7
PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT
The following table summarizes the Corporation's premises and equipment as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The MBT acquisition on September 1, 2019 resulted in additions to premises and equipment of $21,664,000. Details regarding the acquisition are discussed in NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Corporation is committed under various non-cancelable lease contracts for certain subsidiary office facilities and equipment. Details regarding the lease contracts are discussed in NOTE 10. LEASES of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 8
GOODWILL
Goodwill is recorded on the acquisition date of an entity. During the one-year measurement period, the Corporation may record subsequent adjustments to goodwill for provisional amounts recorded at the acquisition date. The MBT acquisition on September, 1, 2019 resulted in
$98,563,000 of goodwill, which includes a measurement period adjustment of $719,000 recorded in the fourth quarter of 2019. Details regarding the MBT acquisition are discussed in NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. There have been no changes in goodwill since December 31, 2019, resulting in a goodwill balance of $543,918,000 as of December 31, 2020.
The Corporation reviews goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate the carrying value might be impaired. The impairment analysis compares the estimated fair value of the Corporation (the reporting unit) with the Corporation's net book value. On January 1, 2020, the Corporation adopted ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles-Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill. Subsequent to the October 1, 2019 impairment test and adoption of ASU 2017-04, the Corporation experienced a decline in market capitalization as a result of a decline in the share price of the Corporation's common stock. At March 31, 2020, June 30, 2020 and September 30, 2020, the Corporation assessed the economic impact and market conditions from the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, the Corporation assessed the general uncertainty as to the full extent of the COVID-19 pandemic and its effect on economic recovery and concluded goodwill was not impaired in either period.
As of October 1, 2020, the Corporation performed its annual goodwill impairment test which included various valuation considerations including comparable peer data, precedent transaction comparables, discounted cash flow analysis, overall financial performance, share price of the Corporation's common stock and other factors. The testing for both periods resulted in a conclusion that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of the Corporation had declined below its carrying value and no impairment loss was recorded in 2020. In December 2020, the Corporation's stock price increased to a value higher than its carrying value and has remained at these levels. The Corporation considers this further support the decline in stock value was considered temporary and not an indication goodwill was impaired. Goodwill assessments are highly sensitive to economic projections and the related assumptions used by management. In the event of a prolonged economic downturn or further deterioration in the economic outlook, continued assessments of our goodwill balance will likely be required in future periods.
The Corporation also conducted its annual goodwill impairment testing in 2019. In the valuation, the fair value exceeded the Corporation's carrying value; therefore, it was concluded goodwill was not impaired.
NOTE 9
OTHER INTANGIBLES
Core deposit intangibles and other intangibles are recorded on the acquisition date of an entity. During the one-year measurement period, the Corporation may record subsequent adjustments to these intangibles for provisional amounts recorded at the acquisition date. The MBT acquisition on September 1, 2019 resulted in a core deposit intangible of $16,527,000. Details regarding the MBT acquisition are discussed in NOTE 2. ACQUISITION of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The carrying basis and accumulated amortization of recognized core deposit and other intangibles are noted below.
The core deposit intangibles and other intangibles are being amortized primarily on an accelerated basis over their estimated useful lives, generally over a period of two to ten years. Amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, was $5,987,000, $5,994,000 and $6,719,000, respectively.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Estimated future amortization expense is summarized as follows:
NOTE 10
LEASES
The Corporation adopted ASU No. 2016-02 - Leases (Topic 842), as amended, as of January 1, 2019 for certain retail branches, office space, land and equipment. The Corporation elected the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance within the new standard, which among other things, allowed the Corporation to carry forward the historical lease classification. Operating leases are included in the operating lease right-of use ("ROU") asset, which is included in other assets and the lease liability is included in other liabilities in our balance sheets. The Corporation does not have any finance leases.
ROU assets represent the Corporation's right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the Corporation's obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at commencement date based on the present value of lease payments over the lease term. The Corporation uses its incremental borrowing rate at commencement date in determining the present value of lease payments when the rate implicit in a lease is not known. The Corporation's incremental borrowing rate is based on the FHLB amortizing advance rate, adjusted for the lease term and other factors. Lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease. The exercise of such lease renewal options is at the Corporation's sole discretion and is not included in the present value of lease obligations unless it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised. The depreciable life of assets and leasehold improvements are limited by the expected lease term, unless there is a transfer of title or purchase option reasonably certain of exercise. Certain of the Corporation's lease agreements include rental payments adjusted periodically for inflation. The Corporation's lease agreements do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictive covenants.
Supplemental balance sheet information related to leases is presented in the table below as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The table below presents the components of lease expense for the period indicated.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Supplemental cash flow information related to leases is presented in the tables below.
NOTE 11
DEPOSITS
The composition of the deposit portfolio is included in the table below for the years indicated:
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, deposits exceeding the FDIC's Standard Maximum Deposit Insurance Amount of $250,000 were $6.4 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively. The Corporation experienced increases from December 31, 2019 in demand and savings accounts of $1.6 billion and $765.5 million, respectively. A portion of the increase is due to PPP loans that have remained on deposit, in addition to consumer Economic Impact Payments from the IRS that have also remained on deposit. Offsetting these increases were decreases in certificates of deposit and brokered deposits of $673.2 million and $141.2 million, respectively, from December 31, 2019. The low interest rate environment has resulted in customers migrating funds from maturing time deposit products into non-maturity products due to similar rates offered for both products.
At December 31, 2020, the contractual maturities of time deposits are summarized as follows:
NOTE 12
TRANSFERS ACCOUNTED FOR AS SECURED BORROWINGS
The collateral pledged for all repurchase agreements that are accounted for as secured borrowings as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were:
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 13
BORROWINGS
The following table summarizes the Corporation's borrowings as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Securities sold under repurchase agreements consist of obligations of the Bank to other parties and are secured by U.S. Government-Sponsored Enterprise obligations. The maximum amount of outstanding agreements at any month-end during 2020 and 2019 totaled $197.9 million and $191.6 million, respectively, and the average of such agreements totaled $180.7 million and $136.3 million during 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Contractual maturities of borrowings as of December 31, 2020, are as follows:
The terms of a security agreement with the FHLB require the Corporation to pledge, as collateral for advances, qualifying first mortgage loans, investment securities and multi-family loans in an amount equal to at least 145 percent of these advances depending on the type of collateral pledged. At December 31, 2020, the outstanding FHLB advances had interest rates from 0.35 to 2.62 percent and are subject to restrictions or penalties in the event of prepayment. The total available remaining borrowing capacity from the FHLB at December 31, 2020, was $723.3 million. As of December 31, 2020, the Corporation had $125.0 million of putable advances with the FHLB.
Subordinated Debentures and Term Loans. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, subordinated debentures and term loans totaled $118.4 million and $138.7 million, respectively.
•First Merchants Capital Trust II ("FMC Trust II"). The subordinated debenture was entered into on July 2, 2007 for $56.7 million. On August 10, 2015, the Corporation completed the cancellation of $5 million of subordinated debentures at a gain of $1.3 million. The outstanding balance as of December 31, 2019 was $51.7 million. Interest was fixed at 6.495 percent for the period from the date of issuance through September 15, 2012; interest is now an annual floating rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 1.56 percent, reset quarterly. Interest is payable in March, June, September and December of each year. The interest rate at December 31, 2020 and 2019 was 1.78 percent and 3.45 percent, respectively. The Corporation could not redeem the debenture prior to September 15, 2012, and redemption is subject to the prior approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as required by law or regulation. On March 16, 2020, the Corporation partially redeemed $10.0 million of its subordinated debentures, with an interest rate of 3.45 percent, all of which were held by FMC Trust II. As a result, FMC Trust II used the proceeds from such partial redemption to concurrently redeem a like amount of its capital securities at an aggregate principal redemption price of $10.0 million. Debentures issued by the Corporation in the principal amount of $41.7 million remain outstanding at December 31, 2020 with a maturity date of September 15, 2037. The Corporation holds all of the remaining outstanding common securities of FMC Trust II.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
•Ameriana Capital Trust I. On December 31, 2015 the Corporation acquired Ameriana Capital Trust I in conjunction with its acquisition of Ameriana Bancorp, Inc. The subordinated debentures of Ameriana Capital Trust I were entered into in March 2006 for $10.3 million and have a maturity of March 2036. Ameriana could not redeem the debenture prior to March 2011, and redemption is subject to the prior approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as required by law or regulation. The interest rate is equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 1.50 percent, reset quarterly. Interest is payable in March, June, September and December of each year. The interest rate at December 31, 2020 and 2019 was 1.72 percent and 3.39 percent, respectively. The Corporation holds all of the outstanding common securities of Ameriana Capital Trust I.
•Grabill Capital Trust I ("Grabill Trust"). On July 14, 2017 the Corporation acquired Grabill Trust in conjunction with its acquisition of Independent Alliance Banks, Inc. The subordinated debentures of Grabill Trust were entered into in June 2004 for $10.3 million and had a maturity of July 23, 2034. The interest rate was equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.60 percent, reset quarterly. Interest was payable in January, April, July and October of each year. IAB could not redeem the debenture prior to July 2009, and redemption was subject to the prior approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as required by law or regulation. On April 23, 2020, the Corporation redeemed $10.0 million of its subordinated debentures, with an interest rate of 4.41 percent, all of which were held by Grabill Trust. As a result, Grabill Trust used the proceeds from such complete redemption to concurrently redeem all of its capital securities at an aggregate principal redemption price of $10.0 million. Subsequently, Grabill Trust was dissolved. The outstanding balance and interest rate at December 31, 2019 were $10.3 million and 4.53 percent, respectively.
•On November 1, 2013, the Corporation completed the private issuance and sale to four institutional investors of an aggregate of $70 million of debt comprised of (a) 5.00 percent Fixed-to-Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2028 in the aggregate principal amount of $5 million (the "Senior Debt") and (b) 6.75 percent Fixed-to-Floating Rate Subordinated Notes due 2028 in the aggregate principal amount of $65 million (the "Subordinated Debt"). The interest rate on the Senior Debt and Subordinated Debt remains fixed for the first ten (10) years and will become floating thereafter. Once the rates convert to floating on October 30, 2023, the Senior Debt will have an annual floating rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 2.345 percent and the Subordinated Debt will have an annual floating rate equal to the three-month LIBOR plus 4.095 percent. The Corporation has an option to redeem the Subordinated Debt in whole or in part at a redemption price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount of the redeemed Subordinated Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption. The option of redemption is subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board. The Corporation has an option to redeem the Senior Debt in whole or in part at a redemption price equal to 100 percent of the principal amount of the redeemed Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of the redemption; provided, however, that no Subordinated Notes (as defined in the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement) may remain outstanding subsequent to any early redemption of Senior Notes. The Subordinated Debt and the Senior Debt options to redeem begin with the interest payment date on October 30, 2023, or on any scheduled interest payment date thereafter. The Senior Debt agreement contains certain customary representations and warranties and financial and negative covenants. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 the Corporation was in compliance with these covenants.
NOTE 14
DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
Risk Management Objective of Using Derivatives
The Corporation is exposed to certain risks arising from both its business operations and economic conditions. The Corporation principally manages its exposures to a wide variety of business and operational risks through management of its core business activities. The Corporation manages economic risks, including interest rate, liquidity, and credit risk, primarily by managing the amount, sources, and duration of its assets and liabilities and through the use of derivative financial instruments. Specifically, the Corporation enters into derivative financial instruments to manage exposures that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates. The Corporation’s derivative financial instruments are used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of the Corporation’s known or expected cash payments principally related to certain variable-rate liabilities. The Corporation also has derivatives that are a result of a service the Corporation provides to certain qualifying customers, and, therefore, are not used to manage interest rate risk in the Corporation’s assets or liabilities. The Corporation manages a matched book with respect to its derivative instruments offered as a part of this service to its customers in order to minimize its net risk exposure resulting from such transactions.
Cash Flow Hedges of Interest Rate Risk
The Corporation’s objectives in using interest rate derivatives are to add stability to interest expense and to manage its exposure to interest rate movements. To accomplish this objective, the Corporation primarily uses interest rate swaps and interest rate caps as part of its interest rate risk management strategy. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the payment of fixed amounts to a counterparty in exchange for the Corporation receiving variable payments over the life of the agreements without exchange of the underlying notional amount. Interest rate caps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable amounts from a counterparty if interest rates rise above the strike rate on the contract in exchange for an up-front premium. As of December 31, 2020, the Corporation had four interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $60.0 million. As of December 31, 2019, the Corporation had four interest rate swaps with a notional amount of $46.0 million. A $10.0 million interest rate swap used to hedge the variable cash outflows associated with a Federal Home Loan Bank advance matured in the third quarter of 2020.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives designated and that qualify as cash flow hedges is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income and is subsequently reclassified into earnings in the period that the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. During 2020, $26.0 million of the interest rate swaps were used to hedge the variable cash outflows (LIBOR-based) associated with existing trust preferred securities when the outflows converted from a fixed rate to variable rate in September 2012. In addition, $10.0 million of interest rate swaps were used to hedge the variable cash outflows (LIBOR-based) associated with one Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Finally, the remaining $24.0 million of interest rate swaps were used to hedge the variable cash outflows (Ameribor-based) associated with a brokered deposit originated in December 2020. The ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the derivatives is recognized directly in earnings. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation did not recognize any ineffectiveness.
Amounts reported in accumulated other comprehensive income related to derivatives will be reclassified to interest expense as interest payments are made on the Corporation’s variable-rate liabilities. During the next twelve months, the Corporation expects to reclassify $1.0 million from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest expense.
Non-designated Hedges
The Corporation does not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. Derivatives not designated as hedges are not speculative and result from a service the Corporation provides to certain customers. The Corporation executes interest rate swaps with commercial banking customers to facilitate their respective risk management strategies. Those interest rate swaps are simultaneously hedged by offsetting interest rate swaps that the Corporation executes with a third party, such that the Corporation minimizes its net risk exposure resulting from such transactions. As the interest rate swaps associated with this program do not meet the strict hedge accounting requirements, changes in the fair value of both the customer swaps and the offsetting swaps are recognized directly in earnings. The notional amount of customer-facing swaps was approximately $985.0 million and $692.3 million as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively. This amount is offset with third party counterparties, as described above.
Fair Values of Derivative Instruments on the Balance Sheet
The table below presents the fair value of the Corporation’s derivative financial instruments as well as their classification on the Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019.
The amount of gain (loss) recognized in other comprehensive income is included in the table below for the periods indicated.
Effect of Derivative Instruments on the Income Statement
The tables below present the effect of the Corporation’s derivative financial instruments on the Income Statement for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The Corporation’s exposure to credit risk occurs because of nonperformance by its counterparties. The counterparties approved by the Corporation are usually financial institutions, which are well capitalized and have credit ratings through Moody’s and/or Standard & Poor’s, at or above investment grade. The Corporation’s control of such risk is through quarterly financial reviews, comparing mark-to-market values with policy limitations, credit ratings and collateral pledging.
Credit-Risk-Related Contingent Features
The Corporation has agreements with certain of its derivative counterparties that contain a provision where if the Corporation fails to maintain its status as a well/adequately capitalized institution, then the Corporation could be required to terminate or fully collateralize all outstanding derivative contracts. Additionally, the Corporation has agreements with certain of its derivative counterparties that contain a provision where if the Corporation defaults on any of its indebtedness, including default where repayment of the indebtedness has not been accelerated by the lender, then the Corporation could also be declared in default on its derivative obligations. As of December 31, 2020, the termination value of derivatives in a net liability position related to these agreements was $77.0 million. As of December 31, 2020, the Corporation has minimum collateral posting thresholds with certain of its derivative counterparties and has posted collateral of $75.8 million. If the Corporation had breached any of these provisions at December 31, 2020, it could have been required to settle its obligations under the agreements at their termination value.
NOTE 15
FAIR VALUES OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Corporation used fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain assets and liabilities and to determine fair value disclosures. The accounting guidance defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. ASC 820 applies only when other guidance requires or permits assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value; it does not expand the use of fair value in any new circumstances.
As defined in ASC 820, fair value is the price to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. It represents an exit price at the measurement date. Market participants are buyers and sellers, who are independent, knowledgeable, and willing and able to transact in the principal (or most advantageous) market for the asset or liability being measured. Current market conditions, including imbalances between supply and demand, are considered in determining fair value. The Corporation values its assets and liabilities in the principal market where it sells the particular asset or transfers the liability with the greatest volume and level of activity. In the absence of a principal market, the valuation is based on the most advantageous market for the asset or liability (i.e., the market where the asset could be sold or the liability transferred at a price that maximizes the amount to be received for the asset or minimizes the amount to be paid to transfer the liability).
Valuation inputs refer to the assumptions market participants would use in pricing a given asset or liability. Inputs can be observable or unobservable. Observable inputs are those assumptions which market participants would use in pricing the particular asset or liability. These inputs are based on market data and are obtained from a source independent of the Corporation. Unobservable inputs are assumptions based on the Corporation’s own information or estimate of assumptions used by market participants in pricing the asset or liability. Unobservable inputs are based on the best and most current information available on the measurement date. All inputs, whether observable or unobservable, are ranked in accordance with a prescribed fair value hierarchy which gives the highest ranking to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest ranking to unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market activity (Level 3). Fair values for assets or liabilities classified as Level 2 are based on one or a combination of the following factors: (i) quoted prices for similar assets; (ii) observable inputs for the asset or liability, such as interest rates or yield curves; or (iii) inputs derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. The level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls is determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. The Corporation considers an input to be significant if it drives 10 percent or more of the total fair value of a particular asset or liability.
RECURRING MEASUREMENTS
Assets and liabilities are considered to be measured at fair value on a recurring basis if fair value is measured regularly (i.e., daily, weekly, monthly or quarterly). Recurring valuation occurs at a minimum on the measurement date. Assets and liabilities are considered to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis if the fair value measurement of the instrument does not necessarily result in a change in the amount recorded on the balance sheet. Generally, nonrecurring valuation is the result of the application of other accounting pronouncements which require assets or liabilities to be assessed for impairment or recorded at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of assets or liabilities transferred in or out of Level 3 is measured on the transfer date, with any additional changes in fair value subsequent to the transfer considered to be realized or unrealized gains or losses.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis and recognized in the
accompanying balance sheets, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
Investment Securities
Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. The Corporation
currently has no securities classified within Level 1 of the hierarchy. Where significant observable inputs, other than Level 1 quoted prices, are
available, securities are classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Level 2 securities include U.S. government-sponsored agency and mortgage-backed securities, state and municipal securities and corporate obligations securities. In certain cases where Level 1 or Level 2 inputs are not available, securities are classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy and include state and municipal securities, government-sponsored mortgage-backed securities and corporate obligations securities. Level 3 fair value for securities was determined using a discounted cash flow model that incorporated market estimates of interest rates and volatility in markets that have not been active.
Third party vendors compile prices from various sources and may apply such techniques as matrix pricing to determine the value of identical or similar investment securities (Level 2). Matrix pricing is a mathematical technique widely used in the banking industry to value investment securities without relying exclusively on quoted prices for specific investment securities but rather relying on the investment securities’ relationship to other benchmark quoted investment securities. Any investment security not valued based upon the methods above are considered Level 3.
Interest Rate Derivative Agreements
See information regarding the Corporation’s interest rate derivative products in NOTE 14. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES of these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
The following table presents the fair value measurements of assets and liabilities recognized in the accompanying balance sheets measured at fair value on a recurring basis and the level within the ASC 820-10 fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurements fall at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
LEVEL 3 RECONCILIATION
The following is a reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of recurring fair value measurements recognized in the accompanying balance sheets using significant unobservable Level 3 inputs for year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
There were no gains or losses included in earnings that were attributable to the changes in unrealized gains or losses related to assets or liabilities held at December 31, 2020 or 2019.
TRANSFERS BETWEEN LEVELS
There were no transfers in or out of Level 3 during 2020 or 2019.
NONRECURRING MEASUREMENTS
Following is a description of valuation methodologies used for instruments measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis and recognized in the accompanying balance sheets, as well as the general classification of such instruments pursuant to the valuation hierarchy for year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Impaired Loans (collateral dependent)
Loans for which it is probable that the Corporation will not collect all principal and interest due according to contractual terms are measured for impairment. Allowable methods for determining the amount of impairment include estimating fair value of the collateral for collateral dependent loans. If the impaired loan is identified as collateral dependent, then the fair value method of measuring the amount of impairment is utilized. This method requires obtaining a current independent appraisal of the collateral and applying a discount factor to the value. A portion of the allowance for loan losses is allocated to impaired loans if the value of such loans is deemed to be less than the unpaid balance. If these allocations cause the allowance for loan losses to increase, such increase is reported as a component of the provision for loan losses. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectability of the loan is confirmed. During 2019 and 2020, certain impaired loans were partially charged off or re-evaluated. Impaired loans that are collateral dependent are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy when impairment is determined using the fair value method.
Other Real Estate Owned
The fair value for impaired loans and other real estate owned is measured based on the value of the collateral securing those loans or real estate and is determined using several methods. The fair value of real estate is generally determined based on appraisals by qualified licensed appraisers. The appraisers typically determine the value of the real estate by utilizing an income or market valuation approach. If an appraisal is not available, the fair value may be determined by using a discounted cash flow analysis. Fair value on other collateral such as business assets is typically ascertained by assessing, either singularly or some combination of, asset appraisals, accounts receivable aging reports, inventory listings and or customer financial statements. Both appraised values and values based on borrower’s financial information are discounted as considered appropriate based on age and quality of the information and current market conditions.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
UNOBSERVABLE (LEVEL 3) INPUTS
The following table presents quantitative information about unobservable inputs used in recurring and nonrecurring Level 3 fair value measurements, other than goodwill, at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The following is a discussion of the sensitivity of significant unobservable inputs, the interrelationships between those inputs and other unobservable inputs used in recurring fair value measurement and how those inputs might magnify or mitigate the effect of changes in the unobservable inputs on the fair value measurement.
State and Municipal Securities, Corporate Obligations, and U.S. Government-sponsored Mortgage Backed Securities
The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Corporation's state and municipal securities, corporate obligations
and U.S. Government-sponsored mortgage backed securities are premiums for unrated securities and marketability discounts. Significant
increases or decreases in either of those inputs in isolation would result in a significantly lower or higher fair value measurement. Generally,
changes in either of those inputs will not affect the other input.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The following table presents estimated fair values of the Corporation's financial instruments and the level within the fair value hierarchy in which the fair value measurements fall at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 16
COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
In the normal course of business there are outstanding commitments and contingent liabilities, such as commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit, which are not included in the accompanying financial statements. The Corporation's exposure to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other party to the financial instruments for commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit is represented by the contractual or notional amount of those instruments. The Bank uses the same credit policies in making such commitments as they do for instruments that are included in the consolidated balance sheets.
Financial instruments, whose contract amount represents credit risk as of December 31, were as follows:
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer, as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The Bank evaluates each customer’s creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by the Bank upon extension of credit, is based on management's credit evaluation. Collateral held varies, but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property and equipment, and income-producing commercial properties.
Standby letters of credit are conditional commitments issued by the Bank to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party.
The Corporation and subsidiaries are also subject to claims and lawsuits, which arise primarily in the ordinary course of business. It is the opinion of management that the disposition or ultimate resolution of such claims and lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position of the Corporation.
NOTE 17
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
The following table summarizes the changes in the balances of each component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The following table presents the reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) that were included in net income in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(1) For additional detail related to unrealized gains (losses) on available for sale securities and related amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income see NOTE 4. INVESTMENT SECURITIES.
(2) For additional detail related to unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges and related amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income see NOTE 14. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES.
NOTE 18
REGULATORY CAPITAL AND DIVIDENDS
Regulatory Capital
Capital adequacy is an important indicator of financial stability and performance. The Corporation and the Bank are subject to various regulatory
capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies and are assigned to a capital category. The assigned capital category is
largely determined by four ratios that are calculated according to the regulations: total risk-based capital, tier 1 risk-based capital, CET1, and tier
1 leverage ratios. The ratios are intended to measure capital relative to assets and credit risk associated with those assets and off-balance sheet
exposures of the entity. The capital category assigned to an entity can also be affected by qualitative judgments made by regulatory agencies
about the risk inherent in the entity's activities that are not part of the calculated ratios.
There are five capital categories defined in the regulations, ranging from well capitalized to critically undercapitalized. Classification of a bank in
any of the undercapitalized categories can result in actions by regulators that could have a material effect on a bank's operations. Quantitative
measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of total and tier 1
capital to risk-weighted assets, and of tier 1 capital to average assets, or leverage ratio, all of which are calculated as defined in the
regulations. Banks with lower capital levels are deemed to be undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized,
depending on their actual levels. The appropriate federal regulatory agency may also downgrade a bank to the next lower capital category upon
a determination that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound practice. Banks are required to monitor closely their capital levels and to notify their
appropriate regulatory agency of any basis for a change in capital category.
Basel III was effective for the Corporation on January 1, 2015 and requires the Corporation and the Bank to maintain the minimum capital and
leverage ratios as defined in the regulation and as illustrated in the table below, which capital to risk-weighted asset ratios include a 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer. Under Basel III, in order to avoid limitations on capital distributions, including dividends, the Corporation must hold a 2.5 percent capital conservation buffer above the adequately capitalized CET1 to risk-weighted assets ratio (which buffer is reflected in the required ratios below). Under Basel III, the Corporation and Bank elected to opt-out of including accumulated other comprehensive income in regulatory capital. As of December 31, 2020, the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements to be considered well capitalized under the fully phased-in Basel III capital rules. There is no threshold for well capitalized status for bank holding companies.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The Corporation's and Bank's actual and required capital ratios as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 were as follows:
On April 9, 2020, federal banking regulators issued an interim final rule to modify the Basel III regulatory capital rules applicable to banking
organizations to allow those organizations participating in the PPP to neutralize the regulatory capital effects of participating in the program. The
interim final rule, which became effective April 13, 2020, clarifies that PPP loans receive a zero percent risk weight for purposes of determining
risk-weighted assets and the CET1, Tier 1 and Total Risk-Based capital ratios. At December 31, 2020, risk-weighted assets included $667.1 million of PPP loans at a zero risk weight. Additionally, in order to facilitate use of the PPPL Facility, the agencies have clarified that banking organizations, including the Corporation and the Bank, are allowed to neutralize the regulatory effects of PPP covered loans on the risk-based capital ratios, as well as PPP covered loans pledged under the PPPL Facility on the leverage capital ratios. At December 31, 2020, the
Corporation did not have an outstanding balance with the PPPL Facility; therefore there were no adjustments to the leverage ratio for PPP loans.
Management believes that all of the above capital ratios are meaningful measurements for evaluating the safety and soundness of the
Corporation. Traditionally, the banking regulators have assessed bank and bank holding company capital adequacy based on both the amount
and the composition of capital, the calculation of which is prescribed in federal banking regulations. The Federal Reserve focuses its assessment
of capital adequacy on a component of Tier 1 capital known as CET1. Because the Federal Reserve has long indicated that voting common
shareholders' equity (essentially Tier 1 risk-based capital less preferred stock and non-controlling interest in subsidiaries) generally should be the
dominant element in Tier 1 risk-based capital, this focus on CET1 is consistent with existing capital adequacy categories. Tier I regulatory capital
consists primarily of total stockholders’ equity and subordinated debentures issued to business trusts categorized as qualifying borrowings, less
non-qualifying intangible assets and unrealized net securities gains or losses.
Because these measures are not defined in GAAP, they are considered non-GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP financial measures have inherent limitations, are not required to be uniformly applied, and are not audited. Although these non-GAAP financial measures are frequently used by investors to evaluate a company, they have limitations as analytical tools, and should not be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for analyses of results as reported under GAAP. For a reconciliation of GAAP measures to regulatory measures (non-GAAP), see additional details within the “Capital” section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included as Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Dividends
The Corporation's principal source of funds for dividend payments to shareholders is dividends received from the Bank. Banking regulations limit the maximum amount of dividends that a bank may pay without requesting prior approval of regulatory agencies. Under these regulations, the amount of dividends that may be paid in any calendar year is limited to the bank’s retained income (as defined under the regulations) for the current year plus those for the previous two years, subject to the capital requirements described above. As of December 31, 2020, the amount available for dividends from the Corporation’s subsidiaries (both banking and non-banking), without prior regulatory approval or notice, was $207,182,000.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Additionally, the Corporation has a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, enabling stockholders to elect to have their cash dividends on all shares automatically reinvested in additional shares of the Corporation’s common stock. In addition, stockholders may elect to make optional cash payments up to an aggregate of $5,000 per quarter for the purchase of additional shares of common stock. The stock is credited to participant accounts at fair market value. Dividends are reinvested on a quarterly basis.
Stockholders' Equity
On September 1, 2019, the Corporation acquired 100 percent of MBT. Pursuant to the merger agreement, each MBT shareholder received 0.275 shares of the Corporation's common stock for each outstanding share of MBT common stock held. The Corporation issued approximately 6.4 million shares of common stock, which was valued at approximately $229.9 million. Details regarding the MBT acquisition are discussed in NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Stock Repurchase Program
On September 3, 2019, the Board of Directors of the Corporation approved a stock repurchase program of up to 3 million shares of the Corporation's outstanding common stock; provided, however, that the total aggregate investment in shares repurchased under the program was not to exceed $75 million. On a share basis, the amount of common stock subject to the repurchase program represented approximately 5 percent of the Corporation's outstanding shares. During the first quarter of 2020, the Corporation repurchased 1,634,437 of its common shares for $55.9 million at an average price of $34.21, which resulted in the aggregate investment in share repurchases to equal $75.0 million, the maximum allowable under the plan.
On January 27, 2021, the Board of Directors of the Corporation approved a stock repurchase program of up to 3,333,000 shares of the Corporation's outstanding common stock; provided, however, that the total aggregate investment in shares repurchased under the program may not exceed $100,000,000. On a share basis, the amount of common stock subject to the repurchase program represents approximately 6 percent of the Corporation's outstanding shares. Details regarding the 2021 stock repurchase program are discussed in NOTE 27. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
NOTE 19
LOAN SERVICING
Mortgage loans serviced for others are not included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The unpaid balances are as follows for December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. The amount of capitalized servicing assets is considered immaterial.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 20
SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
Stock options and RSAs have been issued to directors, officers and other management employees under the Corporation's 2009 Long-term Equity Incentive Plan, the 2019 Long-term Equity Incentive Plan and the Equity Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The stock options, which have a ten-year life, become 100 percent vested based on time ranging from one year to two years and are fully exercisable when vested. Option exercise prices equal the Corporation's common stock closing price on NASDAQ on the date of grant. The RSAs issued to employees and non-employee directors provide for the issuance of shares of the Corporation's common stock at no cost to the holder and generally vest after three years. The RSAs vest only if the employee is actively employed by the Corporation on the vesting date and, therefore, any unvested shares are forfeited. For non-employee directors, the RSA's vest only if the non-employee director remains as an active board member on the vesting date and, therefore, any unvested shares are forfeited. The RSAs for employees and non-employee directors retired from the Corporation are either immediately vested at retirement, disability or death, or continue to vest after retirement, disability or death, depending on the plan under which the shares were granted.
The Corporation’s 2009 ESPP and 2019 ESPP provides eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries an opportunity to purchase shares of common stock of the Corporation through quarterly offerings financed by payroll deductions. The price of the stock to be paid by the employees shall be equal to 85 percent of the average of the closing price of the Corporation’s common stock on each trading day during the offering period. However, in no event shall such purchase price be less than the lesser of an amount equal to 85 percent of the market price of the Corporation’s stock on the offering date or an amount equal to 85 percent of the market value on the date of purchase. Common stock purchases are made quarterly and are paid through advance payroll deductions up to a calendar year maximum of $25,000. The Corporation's 2009 ESPP expired on June 30, 2019.
Compensation expense related to unvested share-based awards is recorded by recognizing the unamortized grant date fair value of these awards over the remaining service periods of those awards, with no change in historical reported fair values and earnings. Awards are valued at fair value in accordance with provisions of share-based compensation guidance and are recognized on a straight-line basis over the service periods of each award. To complete the exercise of vested stock options, RSA’s and ESPP options, the Corporation generally issues new shares from its authorized but unissued share pool. Share-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 was $4,600,000, $4,115,000, and $3,592,000, respectively, and has been recognized as a component of salaries and benefits expense in the accompanying CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME.
Share-based compensation expense recognized in the CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME is based on awards ultimately expected to vest and is reduced for estimated forfeitures. Share-based compensation guidance requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods, if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Pre-vesting forfeitures were estimated to be approximately 0.4 percent for the year ended December 31, 2020, based on historical experience.
The following table summarizes the components of the Corporation's share-based compensation awards recorded as an expense and the income tax benefit of such awards. In 2020, the Corporation had RSAs vest primarily at a stock price that was lower than the grant date stock price, which resulted in the recognition of income tax expense at vesting of $394,000. For the years ended 2019 and 2018, RSAs vested at a stock price higher than the grant date stock price resulting in recognition of income tax benefit at vesting of $363,000 and $448,000, respectively.
As of December 31, 2020, unrecognized compensation expense related to RSAs was $6,721,000 and is expected to be recognized over weighted-average period of 1.73 years. The Corporation did not have any unrecognized compensation expense related to stock options as of December 31, 2020.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Stock option activity under the Corporation's stock option plans, as of December 31, 2020, and changes during the year ended December 31, 2020, were as follows:
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value (the difference between the Corporation's closing stock price on the last trading day of 2020 and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of in-the-money options) that would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their stock options on December 31, 2020. The amount of aggregate intrinsic value will change based on the fair market value of the Corporation's common stock.
The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $261,000 and $495,000, respectively. Cash receipts of stock options exercised during 2020 and 2019 were $115,000 and $144,000, respectively.
The following table summarizes information on unvested RSAs outstanding as of December 31, 2020:
The grant date fair value of ESPP options was estimated at the beginning of the October 1, 2020, quarterly offering period of approximately $19,000. The ESPP options vested during the three months ending December 31, 2020, leaving no unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested ESPP options at December 31, 2020.
NOTE 21
PENSION AND OTHER POST RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS
The Corporation’s defined-benefit pension plans, including non-qualified plans for certain employees, former employees and former non-employee directors, cover approximately 10 percent of the Corporation’s employees. In 2005, the Board of Directors of the Corporation approved the curtailment of the accumulation of defined benefits for future services provided by certain participants in the First Merchants Corporation Retirement Plan. No additional pension benefits have been earned by any employees who had not attained both the age of 55 and accrued at least 10 years of vesting service as of March 1, 2005. The benefits are based primarily on years of service and employees’ pay near retirement. Contributions are intended to provide not only for benefits attributed to service-to-date, but also for those expected to be earned in the future.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
The table below sets forth the plans’ funded status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, using measurement dates of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
As of December 31, 2020, the funded status of the plans decreased $625,000 and the accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, increased $1.7 million from December 31, 2019. The net impact of the primary contributing factors to these changes were the decreased discount rate of 90 basis points from 3.2 percent to 2.3 percent, which increased the liability by $6.8 million. This was offset by a $700,000 reduction in the liability as the mortality projection improvement scale was updated from MP-2019 to MP-2020. The plan's assets earned a return of $7.9 million, which was $3.8 million more than the expected return. Finally, new census data was incorporated into the current year valuation.
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was $80.8 million and $76.8 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Information for pension plans with an accumulated benefit obligation in excess of plan assets consists solely of the non-qualified plans for certain employees, former employees and former non-employee directors, and is included in the table below.
The Corporation recognized expense under these non-qualified plans of $165,000, $192,000 and $161,000 for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The following table shows the components of net periodic pension benefit cost:
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income:
Significant assumptions include:
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Corporation based its estimate of the expected long-term rate of return on analysis of the historical returns of the plans and current market information available. The plans’ investment strategies are to provide for preservation of capital with an emphasis on long-term growth without undue exposure to risk. The assets of the plans’ are invested in accordance with the plans’ Investment Policy Statement, subject to strict compliance with ERISA and any other applicable statutes.
The plans’ risk management practices include semi-annual evaluations of investment managers, including reviews of compliance with investment manager guidelines and restrictions; ability to exceed performance objectives; adherence to the investment philosophy and style; and ability to exceed the performance of other investment managers. The evaluations are reviewed by management with appropriate follow-up and actions taken, as deemed necessary. The Investment Policy Statement generally allows investments in cash and cash equivalents, real estate, fixed income debt securities and equity securities, and specifically prohibits investments in derivatives, options, futures, private placements, short selling, non-marketable securities and purchases of individual non-investment grade bonds.
At December 31, 2020, the maturities of the plans’ debt securities ranged from 15 days to 6.69 years, with a weighted average maturity of 3.65 years. At December 31, 2019, the maturities of the plans’ debt securities ranged from 15 days to 7.67 years, with a weighted average maturity of 4.00 years.
The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as of December 31, 2020. The minimum contribution required in 2021 will likely be zero, but the Corporation may decide to make a discretionary contribution during the year.
Plan assets are re-balanced quarterly. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, plan assets by category are as follows:
The Savings Plan, a Section 401(k) qualified defined contribution plan, was amended on March 1, 2005 to provide enhanced retirement benefits, including employer and matching contributions, for eligible employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries. The Corporation matches employees’ contributions at the rate of 100 percent for the first 3 percent of base salary contributed by participants and 50 percent of the next 3 percent of base salary contributed by participants.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Beginning in 2005, employees who have completed 1000 hours of service and are an active employee on the last day of the year receive an additional retirement contribution after year-end. Employees hired after January 1, 2010 do not participate in the additional retirement contribution. Effective January 1, 2013, the additional retirement contribution was fixed at 2 percent. Full vesting occurs after five years of service. The Corporation’s expense for the Savings Plan, including the additional retirement contribution, was $5.1 million, $4.6 million and $5.1 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The Corporation also maintains a post retirement benefit plan that provides health insurance benefits for a closed group of participants that came to the Corporation through the 2019 MBT acquisition. To be eligible for the post retirement plan, the participants must (1) have been hired by MBT prior to January 1, 2007, (2) be a full-time employee of the Corporation and employed by MBT prior to the acquisition, and (3) be at least 55 of age with 5 years of full-time service with MBT. The plan allowed retirees to be carried under the Corporation’s health insurance plan, generally from ages 55 to 65. The retirees' premiums are determined based on their retiree class (per historical MBT guidelines) and also determined by the plan type for which the retiree is enrolled. As of December 31, 2020, the obligation payable under the post retirement plan was $3.5 million. Post retirement plan expense totaled $126,000 and $43,000 for 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Pension Plan Assets
Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis, as well as the general classification of pension plan assets pursuant to the valuation hierarchy.
Where quoted market prices are available in an active market, plan assets are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Level 1 plan assets total $85.0 million and $80.7 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and include cash and cash equivalents, common stocks, mutual funds and corporate bonds and notes. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of plan assets with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows. Level 2 plan assets total $3.5 million and $4.4 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and include governmental agencies, taxable municipal bonds and notes, and certificates of deposit. In certain cases where Level 1 or Level 2 inputs are not available, plan assets are classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy. There are no assets classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 22
INCOME TAX
The reconciliation between income tax expense expected at the U.S. federal statutory tax rate and the reported income tax expense is summarized in the following table for years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
Income tax expense consists of the following components for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, 2018:
Significant components of the net deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from temporary differences were as follows at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
As of December 31, 2020, the Corporation has approximately $19.3 million of state NOL carryforwards available to offset future state taxable income, which will expire beginning in 2022. These NOL carryforwards along with normal timing differences between book and tax result in total state deferred tax assets of $5.0 million. Management believes it is more likely than not that the benefit of these state NOL carryforwards and other state deferred tax assets will be fully realized.
The Corporation has additional paid-in capital that is considered restricted resulting from the acquisitions of CFS and Ameriana of approximately $13.4 million and $11.9 million, respectively. CFS and Ameriana qualified as banks under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code which permitted them to deduct from taxable income an allowance for bad debts which differed from the provision for losses charged to income. No provision for income taxes had been provided. If in the future this portion of additional paid-in capital is distributed, or the Corporation no longer qualifies as a bank for income tax purposes, income taxes may be imposed at the then applicable tax rates. The unrecorded deferred tax liability at December 31, 2020, would have been approximately $5.3 million.
The Corporation or one of its subsidiaries files income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state jurisdictions. The Corporation is generally no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local income tax examinations by tax authorities for tax years before 2017.
NOTE 23
NET INCOME PER SHARE
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the combination of the weighted-average shares outstanding during the reporting period and all potentially dilutive common shares. Potentially dilutive common shares include stock options and RSAs issued under the Corporation's share-based compensation plans. Potentially dilutive common shares are excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share in the periods where the effect would be antidilutive.
The following table reconciles basic and diluted net income per share for the years indicated:
As of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, there were no stock options with an option price greater than the average market price of the common shares.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 24
QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
The following table sets forth certain quarterly results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
NOTE 25
CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (parent company only)
Presented below is condensed financial information as to financial position, results of operations, and cash flows of the Corporation.
Condensed Balance Sheets
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
NOTE 26
GENERAL LITIGATION
The Corporation is subject to claims and lawsuits that arise primarily in the ordinary course of business. It is the opinion of management that the disposition or ultimate resolution of such claims and lawsuits will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flow of the Corporation.
PART II: ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(table dollar amounts in thousands, except share data)
NOTE 27
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
On January 27, 2021, the Board of Directors of the Corporation approved a stock repurchase program of up to 3,333,000 shares of the Corporation's outstanding common stock; provided, however, that the total aggregate investment in shares repurchased under the program may not exceed $100,000,000. On a share basis, the amount of common stock subject to the repurchase program represents approximately 6 percent of the Corporation's outstanding shares. The stock repurchases may, at the discretion of management, be made from time to time, through solicited or unsolicited transactions in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan all as effected in accordance with Rule 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The Corporation is not obligated to purchase any shares under the program, and the program may be discontinued at any time. The actual timing, number and share price of shares purchased under the repurchase program will be determined by the Corporation at its discretion and will depend upon such factors as the
market price of the stock, general market and economic conditions and applicable legal requirements.
PART II: ITEM 9.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 92b9c5c98240217c9e526f3d46167e6f
- Approx. Length: 34515 characters