# Context

ITEM 1. BUSINESS
Overview
We are a clinical-stage pharmaceutical company pioneering the discovery, development, and commercialization of novel clean surfaced nanotechnology (CSN) therapeutics. CSN therapeutics are comprised of atoms of transition elements that when assembled in nanocrystalline form, possess unusually high, unique catalytic activities not present in those same elements in bulk form. These nanocatalytic activities drive, support, and maintain beneficial metabolic and energetic intercellular reactions within diseased, stressed, and damaged cells.
Our patent-protected, proprietary position affords us the potential to develop a broad and deep pipeline of novel CSN therapeutics to address a range of diseases with high impact on human health. We began in 2013 by innovating an electrochemistry drug development platform that draws from advances in nanotechnology, plasma and quantum physics, material science, and biochemistry. Our platform process results in nanocrystals with faceted surfaces that are free of the chemical surface modifications that accompany other production methods. Many traditional methods of nanoparticle synthesis involve the unavoidable deposition of potentially toxic organic residues and stabilizing surfactants on the particle surfaces. Synthesizing stable nanocrystals that are both nontoxic and highly catalytic has overcome this significant hurdle in harnessing transition metal catalytic activity for therapeutic use.
Our clean-surfaced nanocrystals exhibit catalytic activities many-fold higher than other commercially available nanoparticles, produced using various techniques, that we have comparatively evaluated. We have multiple drug assets currently in development for applications in neurology, infectious disease, and oncology. Our efforts are currently focused on addressing the high unmet medical needs in two areas: first, those related to central nervous system disorders including Multiple Sclerosis (“MS”), Parkinson’s Disease (“PD”) and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (“ALS”); and second, those related to the pandemic caused by COVID-19, a highly infectious viral respiratory disease with serious and sometimes fatal co-morbidities.
The Clene Approach
The Clene approach to drug development is innovation focused and scientifically driven.
●Innovation focused - There are a significant number of diseases with high impact on human health that have proven exceedingly challenging for traditional small-molecule or biologic drug development approaches. Our approach involves the innovation of highly active therapeutic nanocatalysts with novel mechanisms of action that result from proprietary advances in nanotechnology, plasma and quantum physics, biochemistry, and materials science. This platform affords us the ability to make new drug modalities targeting a wide range of diseases that have eluded intervention using traditional small molecule or monoclonal antibody approaches.
●Scientifically driven - Clear scientific rationale and sound experimental design drive our discoveries, from basic science to clinical trials. We believe we have established ourselves as an industry leader in position for the development of therapeutic catalytic nanocrystals. We have deep knowledge of the chemical properties, safety profiles, and catalytic abilities of transitional metal nanocrystals and have proven abilities to produce concentrated, stable, highly active, clean-surfaced nanocrystal suspensions using efficient, “green,” scalable processes. In so doing, we are establishing, new classes of nanomedicines with the potential to address some of the most serious diseases affecting human health.
Strategy and Leadership
The management team is key to the successful execution of this strategic plan and fulfillment of our business model. Our exceptional team brings extensive expertise and industry experience to their roles in leading the company skillfully and effectively. The members of the executive team have established track records in scientific innovation, early and late-stage pharmaceutical development, commercialization, marketing, and the generation and protection of intellectual property.
Our innovation of CSN therapeutic candidates places us at the forefront of novel drug development for a host of high impact, high unmet need human diseases. As we lead the development of CSN therapeutics, our business strategy can be encapsulated by the following:
●First mover advantage - We believe that our proprietary knowledge of the processes needed to manufacture clean-surfaced, highly faceted, catalytically active nanocrystals, and of the resulting toxicological and physicochemical properties associated with these nanocrystals, places us in a leadership position in the innovation and development of new candidate therapeutics for diseases that have proven to be extremely difficult to target using traditional methods.
●Wide range of applicability - Energy metabolism is a fundamental mechanism in all living cells, and CSN therapeutics that improve cellular bioenergetic efficiencies have the potential to be applied to many different disease states and cell types. An advantage of this approach is that a single drug candidate can be developed to hit multiple targets in multiple diseased cell types, presently being investigated across multiple clinical trials with our lead asset, CNM-Au8, through its clinical development program. We continue to explore ways in which the unique mechanisms of action of CSN therapeutics can be applied across different diseases.
●Flexibility and tunability - Nanocatalytic activities are determined by the shape, faceting, size, and chemical composition of nanocrystals. Our CSN platform has demonstrated flexibility in its ability to make, for instance, both pure gold and gold-platinum nanocrystals of consistent and reproducible shapes and sizes, in addition to making solutions of ionic zinc and silver. Because of the ease with which new single elemental and composite nanocrystals can be made of varying shapes and sizes using our proprietary techniques, we plan to continue developing a wide range of CSN therapeutics to generate a deep pipeline of drug candidates to treat a host of different diseases.
Intellectual Property, Trade Secrets and Manufacturing
We are the sole inventors of our manufacturing processes, devices, and drugs. These inventions are protected by a comprehensive intellectual property portfolio of over 100 patents issued worldwide, with over 30 additional patents pending. See “- Intellectual Property” for more details. The patents relate to (1) the devices that manufacture our CSN therapeutic drug candidates, (2) the processes involved in the use of these devices, (3) the drug candidates manufactured in these devices, and (4) methods of use for the drug candidates. In addition to filings for U.S. and foreign patents, we will continue to protect and maintain our proprietary position by the use of trademarks, trade secrets, copyright protection, and continued technological innovation. For example, years of intensive research and development were invested in fine-tuning our production and delivery processes to the point where we expect to be able to consistently, reliably, and affordably produce our drug candidates, including CNM-Au8, to meet large scale needs. We believe that any attempts to reverse engineer or otherwise replicate our discoveries would be extraordinarily challenging for potential competitors without violating our intellectual property protections.
We are also focused on building out a robust and relevant trade secret portfolio. Our trade secret portfolio largely relates to the liquid handling and processing of our water-based products from start to finish. In the case of our lead asset, CNM-Au8, highly purified water containing at least one processing enhancer enters the production device where it is exposed to a plasma-conditioning step. The exact nature of the plasma conditioning affects additional constituents that can become part of the flowing water thus affecting the subsequent crystal growth processes. Likewise, many details of the electrode design, configuration and operation also affect the electrochemical crystal growth processes that occur at each electrode set. Similarly, many design and operational aspects of each trough device directly affect the electrochemical crystal growth processes that occur at each electrode set. Finally, various aspects of liquid handling subsequent to crystal growth, such as concentration and filling, are critical so as not to introduce any contaminates into the liquid, which could alter the surfaces of the nanocrystals, thus adding toxicity and/or adversely affecting efficacy of the biological catalysis processes. We continue to explore additional ways to expand our trade secret portfolio in various aspects of the design, production, control and manufacture of our products.
Our manufacturing facility meets rigorous international Good Manufacturing Processes (“GMP”) standards in producing our CSN therapeutics. Furthermore, we have the space and know-how to expand and scale up production as we continue to meet increased demands for our products.
Products
Our CSN therapeutic candidates aim to address high unmet medical needs in several disease areas including:
(1)disease modification of central nervous system disorders, including MS, PD and ALS;
(2)the treatment of infectious diseases, including COVID-19;
(3)accelerated wound healing and scar formation; and,
(4)the treatment of selected cancer types.
In addition to the development of faceted, clean-surfaced nanocrystals, our electro-crystal-chemistry platform can produce ionic solutions of various transition elements including silver, zinc, and others - elements which have proven historical utility in the treatment of disease.
●CNM-Au8, our lead asset, is a highly concentrated aqueous suspension of clean-surfaced, highly faceted nanocrystalline gold (“Au”). CNM-Au8’s nanocatalytic mechanisms target the bioenergetic deficits, oxidative stress, and accumulation of misfolded proteins that are common to many neurodegenerative diseases. CNM-Au8 is hypothesized to act as a neuroprotective and remyelinating therapy in neurodegenerative disease states in order to: 1) drive, support, and maintain beneficial metabolic and energetic intracellular reactions within diseased, stressed, and/or damaged cells, 2) directly catalyze the reduction of harmful, reactive oxygen species, and 3) promote protein homeostasis via activation of the heat shock factor-1 pathway, recognized to dampen the cytotoxicity caused by misfolded and denatured proteins, which are known to occur ubiquitously in neurodegenerative diseases. We believe that CNM-Au8 is the only drug candidate in development with these unique nanocatalytic mechanisms of action. Nonclinical toxicology studies have demonstrated no adverse effect levels (“NOAELs”) even up to maximum feasible dosing levels for oral administration. In vitro and in vivo pharmacology studies have demonstrated that CNM-Au8 treatment enhances remyelination and neuroprotection in numerous models of MS, PD, and ALS. A Phase 1 First-In-Human study did not reveal safety or tolerability concerns for CNM-Au8 in healthy human volunteers dosed in accordance with the study protocol. There are four Phase 2 clinical studies presently underway evaluating the efficacy and safety of CNM-Au8 for the treatment of MS, PD, and ALS, an Expanded Access Program for ALS, and one Phase 3 registrational clinical trial underway that has the potential to fully support a New Drug Application (NDA) for the treatment of ALS, each of which is discussed in detail below.
●CNM-ZnAg is a broad-spectrum antiviral, antibacterial agent comprised of zinc (Zn2+) and silver (Ag+) ions under development to treat disease-causing infections, such as COVID-19, and to provide immune support for symptom resolution. Zn2+ and Ag+ ions are produced in aqueous solutions using our electrochemistry manufacturing platform; combining Zn2+ and Ag+ ions made in this manner leads to enhanced bioavailability of the ions and potentially, synergistic immune system effects. One clinical study commenced in February, 2021 in Brazil, to determine ZnAg efficacy for the treatment of symptomatic subjects with COVID-19 to prevent hospitalization.
●CNM-AgZn-17 is a gel polymer suspension of Ag+ and Zn2+ under development for treatment of infectious diseases and to support wound healing. We have demonstrated in in vitro assays that CNM-AgZn17 has broad-based anti-viral and anti-bacterial activity against common and antibiotic resistant pathogens such as Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. We have also shown enhanced wound healing benefits in animal models of diabetic wound healing and decreased scar formation following burns. We anticipate filing an Investigational New Drug (IND) application with the FDA and subsequently plan to initiate a Phase 1 dermal First-In-Human safety study with CNM-AgZn17 in 2022.
●CNM-PtAu7 is a gold-platinum combination nanocrystal with the potential to be an effective treatment for oncology indications. We have demonstrated in vitro up-regulation of pro-apoptotic and down-regulation of anti-apoptotic genes in the human breast cancer cell lines EFM-19 and MT-3 using CNM-PtAu7. We have further demonstrated down-regulation of genes associated with the electron transport chain activity which may relate to changes in tumorigenesis activity. We anticipate initiating standard animal toxicology programs in late 2022 with an IND filing planned between 2023 - 2024, subject to evaluation of the safety and efficacy learnings from the preclinical oncology assays and toxicology findings.
Supplements
Our patented electrochemistry manufacturing platform further enables us to develop very low concentration dietary supplements to advance the health and well-being of broad populations. These dietary supplements can vary greatly and include nanocrystals of varying composition, shapes and sizes as well as ionic solutions with diverse metallic constituents.
Dietary supplements are marketed and distributed through our wholly owned subsidiary, dOrbital, Inc. (“dOrbital”), or through an exclusive license with 4Life Research LLC (“4Life”). These include:
●rMetx™ (ZnAg Immune Boost) by dOrbital; rMetx™ is an aqueous zinc-silver ion dietary (mineral) supplement made using our electrochemistry manufacturing platform with bioactive immune-supporting properties. rMetx™ is sold through dOrbital, and, a substantially similar product under the tradename, Zinc Factor™, is sold by 4Life Research LLC (“4Life”), an international supplier of health supplements and a related party, under a supply agreement.
●KHC46 (Gold Factor™) by 4Life: KHC46 is an aqueous gold dietary (mineral) supplement of very low-concentration Au nanoparticles produced using our electrochemistry manufacturing platform. KHC46 has different production methods and uses different devices resulting in different physiochemical properties from our lead drug candidate, CNM-Au8. KHC46 is licensed exclusively to 4Life for worldwide marketing and distribution.
Clinical Development Pipeline
We have four Phase 2 clinical studies presently underway for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders including MS, ALS, and PD, one Expanded Access Program for ALS patients, one Phase 3 registrational clinical trial presently underway for disease-modification in ALS, and a Phase 2 clinical study for the treatment of COVID-19, which has received regulatory approval for conduct in Brazil. In addition, we anticipate launching a clinical study for the treatment of PD in late 2021. The chart below reflects the respective stages of our main drug candidates.
Our CSN Therapeutics Platform
We have developed a new pharmaceutical technology, CSN therapeutics. By uniting concepts from electrochemistry, nanotechnology, plasma and quantum physics, material science, and biochemistry, we have created and refined a proprietary electrocrystallization method that results in a single component or multiple components in nanocrystals of the transition elements that are clean-surfaced, highly faceted, and biologically catalytically active. These nanocrystals can be concentrated as aqueous suspensions and orally administered. We are further able to produce ionic solutions of various transitions elements utilizing our electrochemistry manufacturing platform. Once in the gastrointestinal system, nanocrystals pass into the blood stream, and accumulate in organs such as the liver, kidneys, and spleen, with lower amounts crossing the blood brain barrier and reaching the brain, spinal cord, and cerebrospinal fluid. Nanocrystals can remain active within the body for days before they are eliminated via the hepatobiliary-fecal system as well as via the urinary system.
Once inside the body, CSN therapeutics cross cellular membranes and enter cells where they directly donate and receive electrons within biological systems. In this way, each nanocrystal acts as a potent nanocatalyst, that can drive, support, and maintain beneficial metabolic and energetic intercellular reactions within diseased, stressed, and damaged cells. These catalytic, nanocrystal-based therapeutic drugs represent an entirely new approach to drug development, substantially differing from the standard paradigm of small-molecule drugs and large-molecule biologics. Unlike traditional pharmacological approaches, which are limited to single targets or specific signaling pathways, our technology platform has produced metallic nanocrystals that are beneficial through multi-modal activities in multiple cell types across multiple diseases. By utilizing intracellular medicinal catalysts to support bioenergetic reactions within cells, we believe this technology represents a revolutionary advance in the treatment of the underlying pathophysiology of neurodegeneration and related diseases associated with bioenergetic failure.
Figure 1 below shows examples of the kinds of nanocrystals that can be produced using our CSN therapeutic platform.
Figure 1. Representative CSN Therapeutic Nanocrystals
Figure 1. Representative transmission electron micrographs of the commonly observed crystalline shapes of gold nanocrystals (CNM-Au8) resulting from our CSN therapeutic platform. Insets are wireframes illustrating each classic shape: A, pentagonal bipyramid; B, tetrahedron; and C, hexagonal bipyramid. These nanocrystals are 10-13 nm in diameter.
Nanocatalysis
A catalyst lowers the activation energy of a chemical reaction in such a way as to accelerate the rate of the reaction, without being consumed in the reaction. In doing so, it does not change the equilibrium of the substrates and products, and it can catalyze both forward and reverse reactions until homeostasis, or a balance of substrates and products, has been achieved.
Several industrial uses of metal nanocatalysts have been discovered, but to our knowledge, we are the only company currently developing nanocatalysts to directly modulate biological systems as therapeutic drug candidates. Prior to our invention of the CSN therapeutic platform, the methods employed to make stable nanoparticles required the use of organic solvents or capping agents, which would contaminate the surfaces of the nanoparticles and were substantially difficult to remove. There are multiple conflicting reports in the literature regarding the toxicity of these nanoparticles, ranging from reportedly non-toxic to highly toxic to living organisms. We believe this lack of consistency may have been due to the varying degrees to which different nanoparticle preparations were contaminated with organic reagents, leading to observed toxic effects. Because our electrocrystal chemistry method does not involve the use of any organic solvents or reduction chemicals, we have observed that our nanocrystals possess substantially higher catalytic activity in living organisms than those reported for nanoparticles made using other methods. All of the toxicology studies completed with our lead asset, CNM-Au8, have resulted in NOAEL findings.
Transition metal nanocatalysts are surface catalysts. Unlike enzymes, which are protein catalysts that lower activation energies using active site binding pockets, metal nanocatalysts carry out their catalytic activities on their surfaces, where they act as exceptionally efficient electron donors and receivers. For this reason, unmodified, clean surfaces that are free of contaminating chemicals are extremely important for catalytic activity. The facets and vertices of the nanocrystals serve as the surface areas where electron exchange can take place. Metal nanocatalysts have been shown to have a variety of different catalytic activities, including superoxide dismutase, peroxidase, and catalase-like activities for reducing reactive oxygen species, to reactions involving the oxidation of glucose, ascorbic acid, or the energetic metabolite, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (“NAD”). Figure 2 is an illustration of nanocatalysis, showing a single gold nanocrystal converting molecules of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide hydride (“NADH”) in the background into NAD in the foreground. Gold nanocrystals have been described as electron reservoirs because their surfaces can readily accept as well as donate thousands of electrons per second in order to catalyze biochemical reactions, allowing them to accelerate reaction rates to extraordinarily high levels. For example, the conversion of NADH to NAD is usually very slow at room temperature. Upon addition of our gold nanocrystal suspension CNM-Au8, we have observed the very rapid conversion of NADH into NAD. Importantly, the NAD reaction drives adenosine triphosphate (ATP) production in both the mitochondrion as well as in the cytoplasm, via a reaction called glycolysis. ATP is the universal currency of energy in all living things; without the ability to convert NADH to NAD and vice versa, cells would be quickly depleted of ATP energy stores and die. CSN therapeutics capture the natural, extraordinary nanocatalytic activities of clean-surfaced, faceted nanocrystals to produce metabolites of high energetic or protective value to the cell.
Figure 2. Nanocatalysis Mechanism Representation
Figure 2. Illustration of nanocatalytic activity (Not to scale). A pentagonal bipyramidal gold nanocrystal is shown with its electron cloud to represent the ability of the nanocrystal to rapidly exchange electrons with substrates interacting with its surface. In the background, NADH molecules drawn as dark chemical ball-and-stick figures are catalytically converted into NAD in the foreground as bright pink ball-and-stick figures. A pink and blue mitochondrion on the left can use available NAD for the generation of ATP (Illustrated by Ella Maru).
Our Focus on Central Nervous System Disorders
Over the past several decades, traditional small molecule and biologic drug development approaches have suffered serious setbacks in the attempts to address nervous system disorders. A likely contributor to these setbacks is the multifactorial mechanisms underlying these diseases themselves, which are sufficiently complex they may not be amenable to “one drug-one target” disease modification. In the face of these failures, we believe our new paradigm of nanocrystal drug development, producing novel drugs with unique nanocatalytic, multi-modal mechanisms of action, is advantageous.
Multiple lines of evidence now point to bioenergetic failure as a key contributor to neurodegenerative disease. Neurons, and their associated support cells, in particular oligodendrocytes, are amongst the highest energy-consuming cells in the body: the brain represents only two percent of human body weight, yet it consumes over twenty-percent of the body’s metabolic energy. As humans age, our cell’s ability to convert food into energy in the form of ATP becomes less efficient. Eventually, the nervous system’s demand for ATP surpasses the cells’ ability to supply it, and as a consequence, neurons begin to fail and subsequently die. Genetic and environmental factors determine which neuronal types are most susceptible to bioenergetic failure in any individual. In PD, dopaminergic and other neuronal cell types manifest mitochondrial failure, leading to impaired energy production. In ALS, mitochondrial dysfunction is considered a hallmark of both sporadic and familial ALS, and several genetic causal variants of ALS have been linked to dysregulated neuronal energy metabolism. In MS, the cells capable of remyelinating damaged axons have been shown to be under metabolic stress, rendering them incapable of undergoing the energetically demanding process of repairing damaged myelin.
Preclinical work has shown that CNM-Au8 nanocrystals cross the blood brain barrier to potentially protect multiple central nervous system cell types. In multiple preclinical studies, we have demonstrated these central nervous system cells may benefit from nanocatalysis in several ways: oligodendrocytes receive an energetic boost sufficient to drive myelin production; dopaminergic, hippocampal, and cortical neurons improve energy metabolism sufficient to enhance survival and maintain function in response to multiple disease-relevant stressors. Human astrocytes derived from patients with ALS have the capacity to kill motor neurons when grown in a co-culture, and these motor neurons exhibit markedly reduced toxicity when co-cultures are treated with CNM-Au8. By their very nature, faceted clean-surfaced nanocrystals with nanocatalytic capabilities circumvent many of the challenges that have plagued the central nervous system pharmaceutical drug development field in the past. Importantly, the mechanism by which they act through nanocatalysis produces several useful energetic metabolites while reducing the presence of harmful ones. These mechanisms are well suited to address the complex failures that occur in neurodegenerative diseases on multiple levels and within multiple central nervous system cell types.
The innovation of CSN therapeutics is that we are positioned to address the most significant challenge posed by numerous central nervous system diseases. Unlike the “one drug-one target” model, faceted clean surfaced nanocrystals act by multiple mechanisms to enhance the cellular bioenergetic state, while simultaneously and independently reducing oxidative stress and stimulating protein homeostasis inside central nervous system cells. Each nanocrystal is capable of exchanging thousands of electrons per second, potentially addressing deficits in diseased central nervous system cells in a manner that does not further deplete the cells of their internal energy stores. Our data demonstrate CSN therapeutics thereby support cells and replenish cellular bioenergetic deficiencies. In other words, CSN therapeutics support the cells of the central nervous system with the basic building blocks of energy they require to function normally.
Market Potential of CSN Therapeutics for Neurodegenerative Diseases
Despite the urgent demand for treatments and the tremendous market opportunities for neurodegenerative disease therapeutics, effective treatments are limited. Currently, there are no existing therapies that either promote remyelination or have been demonstrated to improve function in people with non-active, progressive MS. People with non-active, progressive MS account for approximately one-third of all MS cases and they suffer progressive loss of function, severely reduced quality of life and shortened life spans. Further, the current FDA-approved therapeutic agents for ALS have very limited disease-modifying effects. And, there are no currently available disease-modifying therapies for PD. All of the existing PD therapies are limited to symptomatic improvement and none have been shown to prevent or slow the loss of dopaminergic neurons. If the clinical studies presently underway provide evidence of remyelination or demonstrate improved neurological function, CSN therapeutics will have significant commercial sales potential in treating MS, PD, or ALS.
Not a single approved MS drug worldwide has been approved to show an effect on remyelination and neuroprotection. CNM-Au8’s effects on remyelination and neuroprotection for central nervous system disorders, together with the urgent market demand for safe and effective treatments, provides us with a global unique first-mover-advantage with significant market potential for the treatment of central nervous system diseases. Our most advanced CSN therapeutic candidate, CNM-Au8, has been developed to address the significant unmet medical needs in the treatment of the central nervous system disorders, MS, PD, and ALS. MS, PD, and ALS each severely impact healthspan and lifespan of those who suffer from these disorders, resulting in significant demand for disease-modifying treatments.
CNM-Au8 and Restoration of Bioenergetic Metabolism in MS, ALS, and PD
Overview
CNM-Au8 is a concentrated, orally-delivered suspension of pure gold nanocrystals in pharmaceutical grade water buffered with sodium bicarbonate. A single 60 milliliter, 30 milligram dose contains over one quadrillion nanocrystals. The median ferret diameter of CNM-Au8 nanocrystals is approximately 13 nanometers with each nanocrystal consisting of an estimated 30,000 to 70,000 gold atoms. CNM-Au8’s nanocatalytic mechanism, directly donating and/or receiving electrons, enhances intracellular bioenergetic reaction rates without requiring associated energetic investment from cells, thus increasing cells’ net energetic capacity. CNM-Au8 treatment results in improved bioenergetic metabolism within cells of the central nervous system. Through this mechanism, CNM-Au8 may protect multiple neuronal and glial populations including oligodendrocytes and/or neurons from oxidative, inflammatory, hypoxic, and excitotoxic insults, potentially resulting in enhanced myelination and improved neuronal survival while preserving neurite processes and synapse integrity.
Standard ICH M3(R2) toxicology studies were conducted on CNM-Au8 in three animal species, which yielded no toxicity findings resulting in a NOAEL finding up to maximum feasible dosing. A First-in-Humans Phase 1 Clinical Trial of orally administered single and multiple ascending doses of CNM-Au8 was then carried out in 86 healthy human volunteers. All doses (up to 90 mg/day) of CNM-Au8 were well-tolerated.
CNM-Au8 has received regulatory approval to proceed to Phase 2 clinical studies designed to assess the safety and efficacy of CNM-Au8 for brain metabolite target engagement and functional and physiologic improvements indicative of remyelination, and neuroprotection. Details for each clinical trial of CNM-Au8 are given below in the Clinical Development Plan section for each indication.
Mechanism of Action
CNM-Au8 acts through nanocatalysis to improve the bioenergetics, reduce harmful reactive oxygen species, and induce protein homeostatsis, via the heat shock protein-1 pathway in nervous system cells. These unique mechanism of actions lead to a cascade of beneficial effects as summarized in Figure 3.
Figure 3. Nanocatalytic Biological Mechanism of Action
Figure 3. CNM-Au8 mediated nanocatalysis enhances cellular energetic capacity and decreases oxidative stress, resulting in increased NAD and ATP production as well as increased proteostatic activity via the heat shock factor 1 pathway. Together, these activities lead to a cascade of enhanced disease responses in neurons, oligodendrocytes, and astrocytes, cell types that are most vulnerable to energetic deficiencies. CNM-Au8 thereby mediates remyelination and neuroprotective effects in neurodegenerative diseases such as MS, ALS, and PD.
One of the key metabolites catalyzed by CNM-Au8 is nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (“NAD+”) (Fig. 4). NAD+ and its reduced partner NADH are vital for driving cellular energy ATP-generating reactions in living cells (Fig. 4A). Brain imaging studies have shown the ratio of NAD+ to NADH typically decreases with aging. Lowered NAD+ levels in both the blood and brain have been associated with neurological diseases such as schizophrenia, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s Disease, and Huntington’s Disease. Boosting NAD+ activity in neurodegenerative disease preclinical models has consistently demonstrated beneficial anti-aging and neuroprotective effects. CNM-Au8 exhibits higher catalytic activity for directly oxidizing NADH into NAD than any other commercially available gold nanoparticle we have tested (Fig. 4C, D). We have shown that treating cultured nervous system cells with CNM-Au8 increases their intracellular pools of NAD+ and ATP, demonstrating that CNM-Au8 increases the energetic capacity of central nervous system cells (Fig. 4E, F). This optimization of ATP (Fig. 4F) allows oligodendrocytes to increase myelin production, as well as help numerous other types of central nervous system cells resist environmental and disease-related stressors that would otherwise cause them to die.
The statistical analyses shown in Figure 4 were conducted by one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) to compare means of each treatment group to mean of the vehicle control (corrected for multiple comparisons). The p-value (Fig. 4E, F) represents the probability of obtaining test results at least as extreme as the results observed in the assay, under the general assumption that there is no difference between the groups (the null hypothesis). The lower (smaller) the p-value, the greater the statistical significance of the observation, and the less likely the null hypothesis is true. The scientific community and regulatory authorities, such as the FDA, conventionally regard p-values of 0.05 or less to be significant when replicated in independent clinical studies. Consistently statistically significant preclinical results, such as those described here, are used to support investigative new drug applications to investigate the clinical effects of an investigational product.
One significant stressor shared by many neurodegenerative diseases is the accumulation of harmful reactive oxygen species (“ROS”) within neurons as their energetic demands begin to exceed their ability to produce enough ATP to carry out normal functions. Chronic oxidative stress, caused by accumulation of ROS, can overwhelm the mitochondrial systems that normally tightly regulate ROS levels. Accumulation of excess ROS damages cell membranes, allows calcium ion imbalances, and eventually leads to cell death.
Figure 4. NAD Oxidation and Biological Effects on ATP and NAD+
Figure 4. Bioenergetic nanocatalysis by CNM-Au8. A, The NAD-NADH reduction-oxidation couple plays a key role in both ATP-generating reactions, glycolysis and mitochondrial electron transport chain (“ETC”) oxidative phosphorylation. B, Ultraviolet-visible light spectroscopy was used to show the catalytic activity of CNM-Au8 with time. As the reaction progresses, NADH is consumed, as demonstrated by the decrease in the NADH absorbance peak at 340 nm, while NAD+ is generated, as shown by the corresponding increase in the NAD+ absorbance peak at 260 nm. C, the rate of decay of the NADH absorbance peak is greater for CNM-Au8 than it is for citrate-reduced gold, nanoparticles of 10 nm (orange) and 30 nm (red) diameters (purchased from the National Institute of Standards and Technology), indicating that CNM-Au8 has a catalytic rate at least three-fold higher than NIST comparators under the same reaction conditions. D, Catalytic rate of CNM-Au8 is demonstrably superior to several commercially available gold nanoparticles. Sigma Aldrich provides reactant-free, “citrate reduced” gold nanoparticles, in which extra procedures are used to clean the surfaces of reactants. “Citrate” gold nanoparticles may still have residual reactants present in the suspensions. E, Intracellular NAD+ levels increase in response to CNM-Au8 treatment in primary rodent neuron-glial co-cultures. F, Intracellular ATP levels increase in primary rodent oligodendrocyte cultures in response to CNM-Au8 treatment. Panels E-F, quantities shown are group means +/− SEM. One-way ANOVA, corrected for multiple comparisons, was used to compare means of each treatment group to mean of the vehicle control; a statistically significant difference between treatment and vehicle is denoted by asterisks: *p < 0.05; **p < 0.01.
In addition to boosting NAD+ levels inside nervous system cells, CNM-Au8 directly acts to reduce ROS by directly catalyzing their reduction (Fig. 5). CNM-Au8 possesses anti-oxidative catalytic activity and has been demonstrated to directly reduce oxygen radicals in a superoxide dismutase-like manner, as well as convert hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen in a catalase-like manner (Fig. 5A, B). Anti-oxidative activity for CNM-Au8 has been demonstrated in primary mouse oligodendrocyte cultures, in which basal levels of ROS were reduced with treatment (Fig. 5C). In a Parkinson’s Disease in vitro model, ROS generated by treating primary rodent dopaminergic cells with the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (“MPP”) was lowered in response to CNM-Au8 treatment in the presence of MPP (Fig. 5D). The statistical analyses shown in Figure 5 were conducted by one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) to compare means of each treatment group to mean of the vehicle control (corrected for multiple comparisons). The p-value (Fig. 5C, D) represents the probability of obtaining test results at least as extreme as the results observed in the assay, under the general assumption that there is no difference between the groups (the null hypothesis).
Previous drug development efforts for neurodegenerative diseases have included numerous antioxidants, all of which failed to show disease-modifying effects. We believe CNM-Au8 remains in a different class from standard antioxidants because, to our knowledge, no other antioxidant demonstrates catalytic ability to increase bioenergetic metabolites NAD+ and ATP, while independently catalytically decreasing reactive oxygen species.
Figure 5. Reduction of Reactive Oxygen Species
Figure 5. CNM-Au8 is a catalytically active antioxidant. A, SOD-like activity of CNM-Au8 on superoxide radicals was measured using a colorimetric SOD assay kit (Cayman Chemical). B, Decay of the absorbance peak of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) as the dismutation of H2O2 takes place in the presence of CNM-Au8 (green) or comparator AuNPs of similar diameter (red) or no gold (black). C,D, Neurotoxin (MPP+) induced mitochondrial stress and death of dopaminergic neurons in primary E15 rat co-cultures is prevented by CNM-Au8 (green), as determined by TH+ cell number (not shown), reduction of ROS as measured as by the fraction of dopaminergic (“TH”) cells fluorescing with CELLROX Green signal, a marker of cytosolic oxidizing environment (C), and increased mitochondrial membrane potential (Mitotracker Red CMXRos) (D). Panels C-D, quantities shown are group means +/− SEM. One-way ANOVA, corrected for multiple comparisons was used to compare means of each treatment group of MPP with CNM-Au8 treatment to the mean of the MPP (4μM) alone treatment group; a statistically significant difference between each CNM-Au8 treatment group and MPP alone is denoted by asterisks: *p < 0.05; **p < 0.01, ***p < 0.001; ****p < 0.000. Untreated “Control” group is included to demonstrate the significant effect of MPP treatment to increase levels of ROS in TH neurons in Panel C and reduce mitochondrial membrane potential in Panel D, which was not included in the ANOVA analysis.
Previous drug development efforts in the neurodegenerative disease space have targeted misfolded protein aggregates as toxic drivers of disease; for example, alpha-synuclein in PD, amyloid beta in Alzheimer’s Disease, and TAR DNA binding protein 43 (“TDP-43”) in ALS. An important component of the mechanism of action of CNM-Au8 is its ability to dose-dependently reduce aggregated alpha-synuclein and TDP-43 in cellular models of PD and ALS, respectively (Fig. 6). We believe this activity is, at least in part, attributable to the robust induction of twenty gene transcripts of the Heat Shock Factor 1 pathway, which we observed in oligodendrocytes in response to CNM-Au8 treatment (Robinson, et al. Nanocatalytic activity of clean-surfaced, faceted nanocrystalline gold enhances remyelination in animal models of multiple sclerosis. Sci Rep 10, 1936 (2020)) as well as due to an indirect cellular response to NAD upregulation, which has been shown to activate autophagic and proteostatic responses.
In summary, CNM-Au8 exhibits a novel mechanism of action via its nanocatalytic activities, involving:
(1)Enhancement of bioenergetic metabolism via increased production of NAD+ and ATP
(2)Reduction of oxidative stress, and
(3)Enhancement of proteostatic, autophagic responses that reduce accumulation of toxic protein aggregates that are hallmarks of neurodegenerative diseases.
Figure 6. Reduction in Misfolded Protein Aggregates
Figure 6. CNM-Au8 reduces accumulation of protein aggregates in cellular models of PD and ALS. A) Primary culture of E15 rat mesencephalic neurons were pre-treated with vehicle, CNM-Au8, or positive control BDNF for 48h on day 4 of culture. 6-OHDA (20 uM) was added for 48 h then fixed and stained for anti-TH and anti- a-syn. B, Rat spinal motor neurons were cultured and treated with vehicle, glutamate (5 uM) or glutamate (5 uM) and CNM-Au8, then fixed and stained for anti-neurofilament, anti-TDP-43, and Hoechst. Group means plotted +/- SEM. * p <0.05; ** p < 0.01; *** p < 0.001; **** p< 0.0001; treatment vs. vehicle, one-way ANOVA corrected for multiple comparisons.
Safety and Tolerability of CNM-Au8
We completed a Phase 1 First-In-Human study of CNM-Au8 in 2016 to demonstrate it was safe for further clinical development, and to assess the pharmacokinetic profile at different dosing concentrations.
Trial design. The Phase 1 First-In-Human study of CNM-Au8 was a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, escalating single- and multiple-dose study to evaluate the safety, tolerability, and pharmacokinetics of CNM-Au8 in healthy male and female volunteers. There were two phases to this study: a single-ascending dose (“SAD”) phase and a multiple-ascending dose (“MAD”) phase. The SAD Phase was conducted first followed by the MAD Phase of the study.
●Single Ascending Dose: 40 subjects were randomized to CNM-Au8 (n=30) or placebo (n=10) at a 3:1 ratio in single dose escalating cohorts who received CNM-Au8 at 15 mg, 30 mg, 60 mg, or 90 mg with follow-up study duration for each subject of 18 days.
●Multiple Ascending Dose: 46 subjects were randomized to CNM-Au8 (n=35) or placebo (n=11) in multiple dose cohorts who received CNM-Au8 at 15mg, 30 mg, 60 mg, and 90 mg with the duration of treatment at 21 days and follow-up of each subject was up to 50 days.
Safety. Safety assessments revealed no significant findings. All doses used in this study were determined to be well-tolerated based on the frequency of reported treatment emergent adverse events (“TEAEs”). TEAEs occurred more frequently on placebo (86%) than in the CNM-Au8 dosing groups in both the SAD and MAD phases combined (75%). No subjects discontinued the study due to TEAEs and no serious adverse events (“SAEs”) were reported across any treatment group. The most frequently reported TEAEs were almost entirely of Grade 1 (mild) severity and transient. The most frequently reported TEAEs consisted of headaches, somnolence, fatigue, abdominal pain, diarrhea, nausea, and dizziness.
Pharmacokinetics. PK analyses from the MAD Phase showed that at the end of 21 days, the maximum concentration of gold in blood was determined to be 1.53 ng/mL, 1.98 ng/mL, 2.35 ng/mL, and 3.33 ng/mL for each group dosed with 15, 30, 60, or 90 mg respectively. Pharmacokinetic (PK) analyses demonstrated that CNM-Au8 has a half-life of 14-21 days. The end-of-study drug exposure levels in humans either matched or exceeded the equivalent exposure that demonstrated neuroprotection and remyelination efficacy in animal models.
Conclusion. The First-In-Human safety results demonstrated no safety signals following dosing with CNM-Au8 at or above clinically used doses and drug exposure levels in humans either matched or exceeded the equivalent exposure that demonstrated neuroprotection and remyelination efficacy in animal models.
After successful completion of Phase 1 studies of CNM-Au8, we progressed CNM-Au8 into multiple Phase 2 studies designed to test the efficacy of CNM-Au8 in specific disease indications. Based on the safety findings and the strength of our preclinical remyelination and neuroprotection data, we have initiated four Phase 2 studies in central nervous system disorders including MS, PD, and ALS. We have also partnered with a major academic institution to implement a Phase 3 registrational clinical program with CNM-Au8 for the treatment of ALS. We are accumulating increasing human safety exposure in our ongoing Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical programs. To date, on a blinded basis we have seen no concerning or dose-limiting safety signals, and two independent data safety monitoring boards overseeing our randomized double-blind placebo controlled trials have recommended continuing the conduct of the trials following unblinded evaluation of the safety data.
Multiple Sclerosis
MS Market Opportunity
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory and degenerative disorder of the central nervous system involving immune-mediated destruction of the brain, optic nerves, and spinal cord. MS results from autoimmune attacks on the myelin sheath, the protective covering wrapping the axons of neurons. When myelin is destroyed by autoinflammatory immune attacks, neurons become damaged and can ultimately die, leading to motor symptoms, cognitive disability, visual impairment and other neurological impairments.
MS typically begins between the ages from 20 to 40, and it is the leading cause of non-traumatic disability in young adults. Women are affected approximately three-times as often as men, except in individuals with the less common, primary-progressive form of the disease, where there is no gender preponderance. MS is the most common inflammatory demyelinating disease, with a prevalence that varies considerably, from high levels in North America and Europe to low rates in Eastern Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
The diagnosis of multiple sclerosis is predominantly a clinical one that is aided by radiological tests (e.g., magnetic resonance imaging). Other diagnostic methods include blood tests, evoked potential tests, lumbar puncture, and optical coherence tomography, which is a new technology for examining the effects of multiple sclerosis on the health of nerve cells and axons in the retina. Utilizing magnetic resonance imaging, a new diagnostic classification for multiple sclerosis - clinically isolated syndrome has been included in the updated 2017 International (McDonald) Criteria. Ongoing improvements in diagnostic technologies may increase the number of patients diagnosed with multiple sclerosis.
MS Current Therapies and Limitations
All of the currently available drugs for treating multiple sclerosis either treat the symptoms caused by MS or act to reduce the degree of autoimmune-mediated inflammation. These drugs are typically referred to as disease-modifying therapies (“DMTs”). Nearly all of the current approved DMTs are approved for the treatment of relapsing forms of MS (“RMS”). They commonly act via immunosuppression or via immunomodulation, and thereby act to minimize autoimmune-associated attacks on myelin. Immunomodulatory DMTs reduce the risk of having an inflammatory attack, referred to as a “relapse”, and can slow the development of disability in those patients having attacks (i.e., “active” patients). As a corollary, DMTs may possibly diminish the risk of conversion of relapsing MS to secondary progressive multiple sclerosis (“SPMS”). The newer DMTs have been shown to substantially reduce autoimmune-mediated attacks and to delay the progression of the disease in active patients. However, there are no drugs available which can reduce the ongoing loss of function (i.e., disease progression) in non-active (those no longer having attacks) MS patients. None of the approved DMTs have been shown to clinically improve remyelination of damaged and demyelinated axons in MS lesions. Currently available DMTs for the treatment of MS include: Injectable medications, Avonex (interferon beta-1a), Betaseron (interferon beta-1b), Extavia (interferon beta-1b), Copaxone (glatiramer acetate), Plegridy (peginterferon beta-1a), Rebif (interferon beta-1a), Glatiramer acetate generic equivalent (Glatiramer Acetate Injection, Glatopa (glatiramer acetate); Oral medications, Aubagio (teriflunomide), Gilenya (fingolimod), Tecfidera (dimethyl fumarate), Mavenclad (cladribine), Mayzent (siponimod); Infusion medications, Lemtrada (alemtuzumab), Novantrone (mitoxantrone), Ocrevus (ocrelizumab), and Tysabri (natalizumab). Advances in MS treatment with new B-cell depleting therapies, including ocrelizumab, have largely ameliorated inflammatory disease activity as measured by the reduction in risk of having relapses and the lack of occurrence of new gadolinium enhancing (inflammatory) lesions, as detected by MRI. However, despite the stabilization of MS disease activity in active MS patients by these agents for these MS patients, significant improvement in overall function has not been shown. Importantly, for the DMTs that have been approved to date, efficacy and safety are generally inversely correlated.
There is an increasing demand for better treatment strategies. Although current drugs for multiple sclerosis can reduce the risk of an inflammatory attack and slow down the progression of the disease in some MS patients, patients’ responses to drugs can be variable and suboptimal. For non-active MS patients, there is no available DMT that can substantially alter their progressive worsening. Also, the side effects of current MS drugs range from mild to serious, which may lead to reduced patient adherence.
Potential Advantages of CNM-Au8 for MS
We believe that CNM-Au8 has the potential to be a global first-in-class remyelinating and neuroprotective disease-modifying nanotherapeutic drug for MS. CNM-Au8 supports neurologic functions by enhancing bioenergetic activities in neurons and oligodendrocytes that have been attacked by the disease. Unlike the current immunomodulating MS DMTs, CNM-Au8 is thought to act to directly support neuroprotection and remyelination by improving bioenergetics, reducing harmful reactive oxygen species and inducing protective heat shock protein mechanisms. CNM-Au8 is administered orally, penetrates the blood brain barrier, and to date has a favorable safety, tolerability, and toxicology profile. Used alternately or in conjunction with standard immunomodulatory DMTs, CNM-Au8 treatment may improve patients’ quality of life and potentially reverse disease progression because of its enhancing bioenergetic activities in neurons and oligodendrocytes that have been attacked by the disease, even in patients whose inflammatory attacks are well-controlled.
Summary of Nonclinical Pharmacology Myelination Studies for MS
Myelination is a complex process resulting in the wrapping of axons by oligodendrocyte (“OL”) membranes containing specialized proteins and lipids. The resulting myelin sheath provides metabolic support to the axon and facilitates axonal electrical conduction, which in turn allows for central nervous system processing of motor, sensory, and higher order cognitive functions. During active myelination, OLs synthesize on the order of 100,000 proteins per minute and several thousand new lipid molecules per second, reflecting the significant energetic investment needed for biomass generation, and making this cell type among the most energetically demanding in the body. In MS, myelin is destroyed by autoimmune-mediated inflammatory attacks, and neurons whose axons were once protected and supported by myelin become damaged and can ultimately die. OL precursor cells are known to be present near MS lesions and can play a role in remyelination, but studies have shown that these cells are energetically compromised and remyelination is suboptimal in most central nervous system lesions.
Bioenergetic deficits have been noted in the brains of living patients with MS using 31Phosphorus magnetic resonance spectroscopy (“31P-MRS”). In autopsied brains from MS patients, oligodendrocyte precursor cells near MS lesions displayed impaired mitochondrial complex activity and other energetic deficits. These bioenergetic deficits play key roles in MS disease progression. CNM-Au8 is uniquely designed to directly address these important pathophysiological mechanisms.
We investigated the ability of CNM-Au8 to address OL energetic deficits, to induce remyelination and to restore functional activities and motor behaviors in a comprehensive remyelination preclinical program involving multiple in vitro and in vivo assays to determine CNM-Au8 efficacy. This work has been published as a peer-reviewed publication in Scientific Reports and is briefly summarized here.
In vitro experiments on primary OL precursor cells demonstrated robust induction of myelin production by CNM-Au8. RNASeq analyses of CNM-Au8 treated OL precursors cells demonstrated that multiple transcripts for known myelination genes are upregulated, and that glycolytic activity and ATP production are also increased. Several in vivo experiments were also conducted to demonstrate that orally delivered CNM-Au8 results in increased remyelination in the brains and spinal cords of animals treated with cuprizone or lysolecithin, two agents that are known to strip neurons of myelin via different mechanisms (Robinson et al. Sci Rep. 2020 Feb 11;10(1):1936). As fully described in the peer-reviewed publication by Robinson et al. both orally delivered cuprizone, or stereotactically injected lysolecithin are commonly used techniques to cause demyelination of the corpus callosum or spinal cord, respectively. Cuprizone, which is administered to rodents by including this agent in their chow, is a copper chelating agent that specifically causes mature oligodendrocyte death within multiple brain regions, including the corpus callosum. Maximal demyelination due to cuprizone feeding typically occurs within five weeks, which can be visually monitored and quantified using transmission electron microscopy. Lysolecithin injection results in the rapid degradation of myelin within a localized area of the spinal cord, observable using Luxol Fast Blue or toluidine staining for myelin with light microscopy, or also with transmission electron microscopy of the lesion, within a day of injury, allowing for the observation of remyelination within the induced lesion within the following weeks. Remyelination of the corpus callosum or spinal cord using either technique requires the migration of surviving oligodendrocyte precursor cells to the sites of demyelination, differentiation of these cells into mature myelinating oligodendrocytes, and rapid generation of specialized proteins and lipids for formation of new myelin membrane wraps around axons in this energetically demanding process. Multiple independent in vivo remyelination assays, using either cuprizone or lysolecithin as demyelination agents, were performed to demonstrate the remyelinating ability of CNM-Au8. For example, CNM-Au8 was provided either prophylactically, at the same time as the start of cuprizone feeding, or only after two weeks of cuprizone feeding, therapeutically, in order to allow demyelination to start to take place prior to administration of CNM-Au8. In both contexts, CNM-Au8 demonstrated greater recovery of myelin in affected brain areas than vehicle-treated controls. Furthermore, animals that were provided with CNM-Au8 only after full demyelination (five complete weeks of cuprizone treatment) had taken place displayed evidence of higher levels of mature myelin marker expression in their brains than vehicle controls, indicating that CNM-Au8 was not blocking the action of cuprizone but rather inducing recovery by stimulating the differentiation of oligodendrocytes. Similar results were confirmed by the lysolecithin experiments, which indicated that myelin destroyed by a completely different mechanism could be recovered with the daily oral administration of CNM-Au8 for one or two weeks after focal demyelination by lysolecithin. Treatment with CNM-Au8 significantly improved not only the quantifiable detection of myelinated axons in the brains of experimental animals, but also mouse behaviors and functional movements in the open field test and kinematic assays. For example, quantitation of the number of myelinated versus unmyelinated axons in 587 transmission electron microscope images, averaging 84 images per treatment group (with 15 mice per treatment group, seven treatment groups total), demonstrated a statistically significant (p < 0.0001 using one-way ANOVA corrected for multiple comparisons) recovery of remyelinated axons in therapeutically treated animals who were dosed with CNM-Au8 by gavage compared to vehicle treated, cuprizone-fed controls. In independent demyelination model studies using lysolecithin, lesioned animals treated with CNM-Au8 exhibited a 43% mean increase in myelinated axons within lesions post-LPC injection compared to vehicle controls (p = 0.15, unpaired t-test comparing CNM-Au8 treated rats to vehicle treated controls). Finally, in a cuprizone-mediated demyelination model study of both gross and fine motor behaviors, the group of animals receiving therapeutically delivered CNM-Au8 displayed detectable improvements in behaviors in both open field and fine motor kinetics assessments. Principal component analysis of gait metrics showed no statistical difference (p = 0.47) between CNM-Au8 treated, cuprizone-fed animals compared to the sham treated group, whereas there was a detectable difference in vehicle-treated, cuprizone-fed animals and sham controls (p = 0.032; 2-way ANOVA) by the end of study at week 6. Figure 7 shows examples of the observed induction of myelination by CNM-Au8 from selected in vitro and in vivo experiments reported in Robinson et al. These studies were fully funded by Clene and were the result of collaborations among academic researchers from Northwestern University, George Washington University, and various other academic consultants and employees of Clene.
Figure 7. Remyelination Summary
Figure 7. A summary of myelinating activities of CNM-Au8. Top row, Left: illustration of the demyelination (red) of a neuron’s axon (yellow) that occurs in MS. Right: Illustration of restored myelination along the axon (blue) provided by the OL (blue cell). Middle row: isolated primary mouse OL precursors treated with vehicle control (left), 3 μg/mL CNM-Au8, or positive control and myelin-inducing agent tri-iodothyronine (“T3”). Cells are fixed and stained for Myelin Basic Protein (“MBP”), a marker of mature myelin in red, and the nuclear stain DAPI in blue, to reveal the presence of all OL precursor cells in the field of view. Many more cells expressing MBP are seen in the CNM-Au8 treated cells compared to vehicle-treated cells. Bottom row: transmission electron images of slices of corpus callosum of mice treated with, left to right: no cuprizone, cuprizone for five weeks, CNM-Au8 for five weeks, or cuprizone for five weeks and CNM-Au8 for the last three of the five weeks. Myelin can be seen as dark rings in each micrograph. Cuprizone treatment destroys myelin, while CNM-Au8 treatment alone does not change myelin. CNM-Au8 treatment of cuprizone-treated animals results in the recovery of myelin in the brains of these animals.
Clinical Development of CNM-Au8 as a Disease-Modifying Drug for MS
Based on safety findings in our Phase 1 clinical study of CNM-Au8 and our robust preclinical remyelination data, we have launched two Phase 2 clinical studies to investigate the effects of CNM-Au8 in MS patients.
VISIONARY-MS
The VISIONARY-MS study, launched in December 2018, is an ongoing double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 2 trial evaluating the efficacy and safety of two doses of CNM-Au8 as a remyelinating and neuroprotective treatment in people who have stable relapsing MS with chronic visual impairment. Enrolled participants must have chronic optic neuropathy, defined as visual impairment with no episodes of acute optic neuritis within the six months prior to enrollment, and stable (non-active) disease, defined as no MS relapses within the three months prior to entry. Concomitant immunomodulatory MS DMTs are allowed. Participants are randomized to low-dose CNM-Au8 (15 mg/day), high-dose CNM-Au8 (30 mg/day), or matching placebo. The primary endpoint is improvement in low contrast letter acuity (“LCLA”) from baseline to week 24.
Contrast is the quantity of lightness or darkness contained by an object in comparison to its background. The smallest difference in contrast distinguished by the eye is known as the contrast threshold, usually reported as its reciprocal value, which is also known as contrast sensitivity (1/contrast threshold). Therefore, if a large amount of contrast is necessary for a patient to identify an object, they have poor contrast sensitivity and will have a low numerical value for this measurement. Contrast sensitivity can be thought of as a spectrum, in that black letters on a white background will be easier for any individual to discern than lower-contrast grey on white letter chart, regardless of whether or not visual abnormalities are present. The contrast threshold is the minimum amount of contrast necessary for an individual to discern an object from its background, and for people with MS the contrast threshold has been found to be higher than that of healthy individuals, even when visual acuity is equal between the two groups. contrast sensitivity is on a spectrum and may elicit more subtle changes in the contrast threshold that will be missed by high contrast visual acuity. LCLA tests low-contrast vision at various spatial frequencies that may be particularly affected by damage to specific inter-neural connections in the complex visual pathway.
In the VISIONARY-MS study, all participants remain in the double-blind, placebo-controlled treatment period through week 48, until the last participant completes week 24. In this way, double-blind, placebo-controlled data will be generated for most patients in the study through week 48, improving the study’s ability to assess the long-term effects of CNM-Au8 on clinical endpoints. The study is presently being conducted across eight clinical sites in Australia, and site expansion into North America is presently underway. Health Canada and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) have both approved conduct of the trial within Canada and the United States, respectively. Incremental clinical research site initiation is subject to ongoing COVID-19 related research restrictions. As of February 26, 2021, 56 participants were enrolled in the VISIONARY-MS study with exposure to the investigational product up to 48-weeks.
Preliminary, interim, blinded efficacy results from VISIONARY-MS were reported as an invited oral presentation at the Joint NAIMS-IMSVISUAL Symposium at the Americas Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (“ACTRIMS”) Forum 2020 held February 27-29 in West Palm Beach, Florida. Results from the first 34 enrolled participants up to week 36 demonstrate clinically-relevant median improvements in LCLA and the three remaining modified Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite sub-scales (“(m)MSFC”), including Symbol Digit Modalities Test (SDMT, cognition), 9-Hole Peg Test (9HPT, upper extremity function), and Timed 25-foot Walk (T25FWT, gait) in the population, as a whole. Updated preliminary, interim, blinded efficacy results were presented at the 8th Joint ACTRIMS-ECTRIMS meeting, called MS Virtual, on September 11th, 2020, and at the ACTRIMS Forum 2021 on February 26, 2021. These updated blinded interim analyses compared changes in Multiple Sclerosis Functional Composite (MSFC) scores over the study treatment period to the baseline values of study participants with mild disease, as defined by Baseline Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) scores of 1.5 or less. Notably, baseline scores for these participants demonstrate less neurological impairment than those of the overall study population, providing a valid comparator group. Changes in the four MSFC sub-scales (LCLA, SDMT, 9HPT, and T25FW) were compared to baseline scores of the comparator group with mild disease. These comparisons were performed at each study time-point (Weeks 12, 24, and 36). At each visit, the overall study population (randomized 2:1 active CNM-Au8 to placebo) showed notable increasing mean improvements in overall MSFC scores and key MSFC sub-scales compared to the comparator group (mixed-effects model; p<0.0001 vs. baseline). We believe these data support CNM-Au8’s potential to drive meaningful neurological improvements in MS patients. Further, we believe these observations are notable given the expected long-term decline in LCLA, SDMT, 9HPT, and T25FW amongst MS patients reported from data sets including from the MS Outcome Assessments Consortium (“MSOAC”) (Goldman et al. Neurology. 2019 Nov 19;93(21):e1921-e1931). MSOAC includes prospectively acquired RMS patient-level data from fourteen separate MS clinical trials including over 12,776 participants combined into a single database and followed for up to 24-months. When LCLA, SDMT, 9HPT, and T25FW were analyzed as a multidimensional measure rather than individually, progression on any one of these performance measures was more sensitive than the commonly used MS Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS), and demonstrated long-term declines in RMS patients. The increasing mean improvements observed across the entire study population (CNM-Au8 and placebo) may suggest a clinical effect CNM-Au8 when contrasted with the anticipated decline reported in publications from the MSOAC data. Figure 8 represents a summary of the observed average change in an integrated MSFC average 6-component Z-score of the change from Baseline by each 12-week study interval across all study participants in VISIONARY-MS (e.g., low dose, high dose, placebo) for all visits recorded as of 13-January-2021 and indicate continuing improvement over the course of the study.
Figure 8. VISIONARY-MS Mean (m)MSFC Z-Score Change vs. Baseline
Glanzman, R., H. Beadnall, M. T. Hotchkin, A. Klistorner, M. Barnett, R. Sergott, A. Rynders, K. S. Ho, and Mark G. Mortenson. “Update to a Phase 2 clinical trial of catalytic gold nanocrystals, CNM-Au8, for the treatment of chronic optic neuropathy.” Presented at the ACTRIMS Forum 2021, February 26, 2021.
Available blinded safety data from VISIONARY-MS indicate that CNM-Au8 is well-tolerated with most adverse events characterized as mild in severity. No serious adverse events related to the investigational product (e.g., placebo, CNM-Au8) have been reported to date. The most frequently reported adverse events include headache, upper respiratory infection, and sore throat. The full unblinded results from the study are anticipated in the first half of 2022, subject to ongoing COVID-19 related research restrictions.
REPAIR-MS and REPAIR-PD
Two Phase 2, central nervous system imaging trials, REPAIR-MS and REPAIR-PD, were initiated to demonstrate central nervous system target engagement by measuring the effects of orally delivered CNM-Au8 on brain energy metabolites in patients with MS and PD in vivo. These bioenergetic metabolites are measured non-invasively and semi-quantitatively by utilizing 31P-MRS imaging with a 7 Tesla (7T) MRI scanner. The REPAIR studies are being conducted at the University of Texas Southwestern, a center with specialized capabilities for conducting and analyzing 7T 31P-MRS imaging studies. Both REPAIR studies were approved for clinical conduct by the FDA and commenced in December 2019 (REPAIR-PD)/January 2020 (REPAIR-MS) with full data availability anticipated in the second half of 2021 for both REPAIR-PD and REPAIR-MS, subject to ongoing COVID-19 related research restrictions. As of February 25, 2021, twelve participants were enrolled in REPAIR-PD study with exposure to CNM-Au8 up to 21-weeks, and ten participants were enrolled in the REPAIR-MS study with exposure to CNM-Au8 up to 18-weeks.
An interim analysis of data from study completers as of mid-July 2020 from these ongoing trials was conducted and reported at the 8th Joint ACTRIMS-ECTRIMS (MS Virtual 2020) meeting held September 11th, 2020. A full volume head coil was used to collect whole brain spectral waveforms in ~600 voxels with a spatial resolution of 2 cm3 for the following metabolites: NAD pool (both NAD+ and NADH together), ATP, phosphocreatine, extracellular and intracellular inorganic phosphate, uridine diphosphate glucose, phosphocholine, phosphoethanolamine, glycerophosphocholine, and glycerophosphoethanolamine. A partial volume head coil was used in the same patient cohort to measure occipito-parietal levels of individual NAD+ and NADH phosphorous metabolites to determine the ratio of NAD+/NADH. Results for 4 MS and 6 PD completers (all competed subjects prior to a COVID-19 related research pause) were analyzed. Percent change from baseline (“BL”) at the end-of-study (“EOS”) visit was highly correlated to BL levels for key bioenergetic markers. Overall, the data indicate that CNM-Au8 normalized the levels of multiple bioenergetic metabolites measured. Patients with whole-brain NAD levels less than the BL mean significantly increased NAD levels at the EOS visit, while patients with whole-brain BL NAD levels greater than the mean normalized levels to the BL mean. Importantly, this relationship was observed for total NAD levels (r2 = 0.6585; p = 0.0044), ß-ATP (r2 = 0.8705; p < 0.0001), and several other 31P metabolites, indicating a homeostatic effect of CNM-Au8 on brain bioenergetics. In the 4 MS patients, there were marked correlations for NAD (r2 = 0.9241; p = 0.039), ß-ATP (r2 = 0.968; p=0.016), and several other phosphorous metabolites. These preliminary results reflect target engagement in the brains of PD and MS patients, and provide the first clinical evidence to support the catalytic effects of CNM-Au8 on brain bioenergetic metabolites. Figure 9 below illustrates the changes in NAD/NADH ratio via the partial volume coil assay and correlations in mean ß-ATP levels versus baseline values for the full volume coil.
Figure 9. Interim Data from All Completers in REPAIR-MS and REPAIR-PD
Left, Change in NAD+/NADH Ratio by Subject. Right, Normalization of Brain ß-ATP by Subject
A subsequent updated interim analysis of MS participants was presented at the ACTRIMS Forum 2021 on February 26, 2021, specific to the 5 MS participants who have completed the 31P-MRS imaging. Among those who completed the study, the data indicate that CNM-Au8 increased the ratio of NAD+/NADH in the brains of MS subjects, resulting in normalized levels of multiple bioenergetic metabolites measured including ATP. Patients with whole-brain α-ATP and γ-ATP levels less than the BL mean significantly increased these levels at the EOS visit, while patients with whole-brain BL α-ATP and γ-ATP levels greater than the mean normalized levels to the BL mean, indicating a homeostatic effect of CNM-Au8 on brain bioenergetics (r2 = 0.94 [α-ATP] and 0.96 [γ-ATP]; p < 0.01) (Figure 10).
Figure 10. Updated Interim Data from All Completers in REPAIR-MS
Left, Change in NAD+/NADH Ratio by Subject. Center and Right, Normalization of Brain ATP by Subject
Parkinson’s Disease
PD Market Opportunities
Parkinson’s disease (PD) is a chronic, progressive neurodegenerative disorder involving the progressive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra area of the midbrain. The degeneration of dopaminergic neurons leads to resting tremor, bradykinesia, limb rigidity, and gait and balance problems as well as increasingly recognized cognitive loss and behavioral changes due to more generalized neuronal loss. Both genetic and environmental factors are thought to contribute to the development of PD in addition to ageing, which is the most significant risk factor for developing the disease. Approximately one in one hundred individuals over the age of 60 is affected by PD.
PD Current Therapies and Limitations
While there are a number of approved Parkinson’s therapies, such as dopamine agonists, COMT and MAO-B inhibitors, and deep brain stimulation, these treatments are limited to symptomatic improvement. No treatment is currently available to prevent the destruction of dopaminergic neurons. The inexorable progression of loss of dopaminergic innervation leads to progressively worsening symptoms with “on” (dyskinesias) and “off” (rigidity) symptoms that become increasingly difficult to manage. In addition, long-term use of levodopa, a commonly-prescribed dopamine precursor used to treat Parkinsonian symptoms, often results in dyskinesia that in itself becomes disabling. Despite an enormous effort over the past several decades, no disease-modifying or neuroprotective therapeutic for PD is available. A therapeutic that alters or slows the clinical progression, and thus improves PD healthspan and lifespan, would address a very significant unmet need.
Neuronal bioenergetic failure underlies PD, as evidenced by the observed impaired mitochondrial and lysosomal functioning, neuronal sensitivity to glutamate toxicity, accumulation of oxidative stress, autophagic failure in clearing misfolded proteins, and loss of synapse integrity associated with this disease. As such, improvement of cellular bioenergetic efficiency, as is possible with CNM-Au8, represents an important and previously unaddressed therapeutic target for this disease.
Potential Advantages of CNM-Au8 for PD
We believe that CNM-Au8 has the potential to be a global first-in-class disease modifying nanotherapeutic drug for PD. While current therapies for PD are designed to stimulate surviving dopaminergic neurons in order to elicit partial functional effects, none of them prevent the inexorable degeneration of dopaminergic neurons to change the course of disease progression. Our nonclinical studies demonstrate that CNM-Au8 is robustly neuroprotective of dopaminergic neurons across a variety of disease-relevant insults created using a variety of toxins and stressors. In addition, CNM-Au8 may have a tolerability profile superior to existing approved products like commonly used drugs for PD, such as levodopa/carbidopa that result in risk of dyskinesias after long-term use.
Summary of Nonclinical Pharmacology and General Neuroprotection Studies for PD
Excitotoxic injury, oxidative stress, and the accumulation of misfolded alpha-synuclein are hallmarks of the failing bioenergetic pathways associated with PD. In order to determine whether CNM-Au8 could act as a neuroprotective agent for PD, we conducted a series of in vitro and in vivo studies designed to test efficacy of CNM-Au8 in protecting various neuronal cell types from a variety of PD relevant disease-related stressors.
The potential of CNM-Au8 to confer neuroprotection in PD disease-specific cellular models was first demonstrated in vitro. Primary rat dopaminergic cells were challenged with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tatrahydropyridine, (MPTP, which is metabolized to its active form MPP+) or alternatively with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), which are both toxins specific to dopaminergic neurons. Treatment of primary neuronal-glial cocultures with CNM-Au8 increased the numbers of surviving dopaminergic neurons in response to either toxin in a dose-dependent manner, as well as affected overall improvement in neuronal health by a variety of metrics, including preservation of neurite network, reduction in oxidative stress, increase in mitochondrial staining, and reduction in alpha-synuclein aggregates. The activity of CNM-Au8 was then tested in the standard 6-OHDA-unilateral lesion model of PD. Lesioned rats, and a sham control group, were orally administered vehicle or CNM-Au8 for 4-weeks (2-weeks post-lesion) or 6-weeks (one-day post lesion) following the establishment of a lesion in the striatum. Significant functional improvements due to CNM-Au8 treatment was demonstrated in both the behavioral apomorphine-induced rotation and cylinder paw placement tests. In addition, larger numbers of surviving dopaminergic neurons were detected in the striatum of CNM-Au8-treated lesioned animals compared to vehicle controls. These studies independently demonstrated that CNM-Au8 treatment has robust neuroprotective properties in preclinical models of PD.
Clinical Development of CNM-Au8 as a Disease-Modifying Drug for PD
REPAIR-PD
We initiated the Phase 2 REPAIR-PD study to determine CNS target engagement by measuring the effects of orally delivered CNM-Au8 on brain energy metabolites in patients with PD as discussed previously. The REPAIR-PD study is being conducted at the University of Texas Southwestern. The REPAIR-PD study was approved for clinical conduct by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and commenced in December 2019. The REPAIR-PD study is anticipated to conclude in the second half of 2021 subject to COVID-19 related research restrictions. As of February 25, 2021, twelve participants were enrolled in the REPAIR-PD study with exposure up to 21-weeks.
In July 2020, an interim analysis of data from completers of these ongoing trials was conducted. A full volume coil was used to collect whole brain spectral waveforms in ~600 voxels with a spatial resolution of 2 cm3 for the following metabolites: NAD pool (both NAD+ and NADH together), ATP, phosphocreatine, extracellular and intracellular inorganic phosphate, uridine diphosphate glucose, phosphocholine, phosphoethanolamine, glycerophosphocholine, and glycerophosphoethanolamine. A partial volume coil was used on the same patient cohort to measure combined occipital and parietal levels of NAD+ and NADH phosphorous metabolites to determine the ratio of NAD+/NADH. Results for 4 MS and 6 PD completers (all competed subjects prior to a COVID-19 related research pause) were analyzed. These data suggest that CNM-Au8 was able to normalize the levels of all bioenergetic metabolites measured. Percent change from BL at the EOS visit was highly correlated to BL levels for key bioenergetic markers. Patients with NAD levels less than the BL mean significantly increased whole-brain NAD levels at the EOS visit, while patients with BL NAD levels greater than the mean normalized levels to the BL mean. Importantly, this relationship was observed for total NAD levels (r2 = 0.6585; p = 0.0044), ß-ATP (r2 = 0.8705; p < 0.0001), and several other 31P metabolites, indicating a homeostatic effect of CNM-Au8 on brain bioenergetics. These preliminary results robustly demonstrate target engagement in the brains of PD patients, and provide the first clinical evidence demonstrating the catalytic effects of CNM-Au8 on brain bioenergetic metabolites. For details, please see the “- REPAIR-MS and REPAIR-PD” section and Figure 9 above.
RESCUE-PD
A second Phase 2 clinical study is planned to investigate the effects of CNM-Au8 on slowing or preventing disease progression in PD patients. This study, the RESCUE-PD study, will follow patients with PD to determine the effects of CNM-Au8 on stabilizing disease activity as a neuroprotective therapeutic. The RESCUE-PD study is planned to commence in late 2022, with results anticipated within 24-36 months following study initiation.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis
ALS Market Opportunities
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is an adult-onset, progressive, and fatal neurodegenerative disorder of the neuromuscular system resulting in muscle weakness and paralysis leading to death as early as three to five years after initial diagnosis. ALS involves the progressive degeneration of motor neurons in the spinal cord and brain, which are responsible for controlling voluntary muscle movement. In ALS, this progressive loss of motor neurons leads to muscle weakness, loss of muscle mass, and inability to control movement. Although there are two FDA approved drugs for ALS, riluzole and edaravone, neither treatment substantially halts or reverses the progressive nature of this disease. The onset of disease for the majority of individuals with ALS occurs between 40 and 60 years old and is more common in men. After the age of 65, the difference in incidence between males and females decreases.
ALS Current Therapies and Limitations
Current ALS treatment therapies are largely palliative, aiming only to provide temporary relief from symptoms without addressing the underlying disease progression. For example, one approach to the loss of respiratory function, which is the most common cause of ALS-related death, is non-invasive ventilation. Despite the great need for an effective disease-modifying treatment, and significant research efforts by the pharmaceutical industry to meet this need, there have been limited clinical successes and no curative therapies approved to date. There are two FDA-approved therapeutic agents for the treatment of ALS: riluzole, an anti-glutamatergic agent, and edaravone, a free-radical scavenger. However, both of these treatments are acknowledged to have limited disease-modifying effects, as riluzole extends participant lifespans by an average of only two to three months, while edaravone slows the decline of the ALSFRS-R score, a clinical measure of functional decline, in only a small subset of participants who are at an early stage of disease. There is clearly an urgent unmet need for the development of safe and effective disease-modifying therapeutics for ALS.
Potential Advantages of CNM-Au8 for ALS
We believe that CNM-Au8 has the potential to be a first-in-class disease modifying nanotherapeutic drug for ALS. In a human induced pluripotent stem cell (“iPSC”) model of ALS, CNM-Au8 demonstrated clearly superior human motor neuron protection compared to riluzole. Furthermore, oral delivery of CNM-Au8 to ALS model mice extended the median lifespan of these animals by over three times the lifespan extension attributed to edaravone or riluzole treatment reported in the literature. While the mechanism of action of edaravone shares one similar component with CNM-Au8, namely, reduction of oxidative stress, we believe the important difference in activity lies in CNM-Au8’s demonstrated potential to enhance bioenergetic activity in diseased neurons as well as to significantly reduce oxidative stress. Furthermore, we believe the complex nature of many of the neurodegenerative diseases, including ALS, calls for a therapeutic drug with multimodal activity that can act to enhance the bioenergetic profile of multiple central nervous system cell types; for this, CNM-Au8 may be uniquely suited to address the therapeutic challenges posed by such complicated and devastating diseases.
Summary of Nonclinical Pharmacology Neuroprotection Studies for ALS
Motor neurons progressively degenerate during the course of ALS. To demonstrate neuroprotection of motor neurons by CNM-Au8, in vitro neuroprotection assays were first used. Rat motor neurons were challenged with glutamate to induce excitotoxicity, or with amyloid beta 1-42 peptide (“A-beta”), which is toxic to motor neurons. In Alzheimer’s Disease, A-beta aggregates participate in the formation of amyloid plaques. CNM-Au8 treatment of motor neurons challenged with glutamate or with A-beta increased numbers of surviving motor neurons and preserved neurite networks in a dose-dependent manner.
Aggregation of misfolded proteins that display neurotoxic properties is a hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases, including ALS. Accumulation of mis-localized, cytoplasmic TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (“TDP-43”) in motor neurons is associated with over 90% of ALS cases, and TDP-43 aggregates have been shown to disrupt cellular functions in motor neurons. In neuron-glial co-culture assays, application of glutamate or A-beta to rat motor neurons causes TDP-43 aggregates to accumulate in the cytoplasm of motor neurons. Treatment of the glutamate- or A-beta-challenged motor neurons with CNM-Au8 significantly reduced the accumulation of TDP-43 aggregates in a dose-dependent manner.
In addition to animal models, iPSCs have emerged as a new technique for neurodegenerative disease modeling using human-derived cells. iPSCs can be generated from a human skin or blood samples, and then differentiated in vitro into astrocytes and motor neurons. Using this technique, ALS patient-derived astrocytes were shown to be toxic to normal healthy human motor neurons. Introduction of CNM-Au8 to these toxic ALS patient astrocyte-motor neuron co-cultures resulted in a significant, dose-dependent rescue of human motor neurons and preservation of motor neuron neurite networks. Collectively, these results indicated that CNM-Au8 exerts motor neuron protection effects in several different models, including in response to excitotoxic stress, A-beta toxicity, and toxic astrocytes.
To investigate the efficacy of CNM-Au8 in an in vivo model of ALS, two studies were conducted in separate transgenic (SOD1G93A) mouse model strains that model the human SOD1 familial form of ALS. In a study using rapidly progressing SOD1G93A animals, CNM-Au8 treated animals showed significant reduction of brainstem atrophy and brainstem vacuolization normally seen in untreated SOD1G93A mice. In the study using slower-progressing SOD1G93A animals, CNM-Au8 treated animals showed significant treatment effects in a number of behavioral and functional tests, including overall clinical score, weights hold, static rod orientation time, and average wheel-running velocity. Median survival of CNM-Au8 treated animals significantly exceeded vehicle-treated controls by 23 days (approximately 20% of the animal’s expected life-span).
Clinical Development of CNM-Au8 as a Disease-Modifying Drug for ALS
Orphan Drug Status for ALS
The U.S. FDA granted orphan drug development status to CNM-Au8 for the treatment of ALS in May 2019. Following FDA orphan drug designation, sponsors may qualify for seven-year FDA-administered Orphan Drug Exclusivity, partial tax credits for research and development expenses, potential research and development grants, waived FDA fees, and protocol assistance from the FDA.
RESCUE-ALS
RESCUE-ALS is a Phase 2, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the efficacy, safety, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of CNM-Au8 in ALS patients. As of September 7th, 2020, the study was fully enrolled with 42 participants. In the study, patients will be randomized 1:1 to either receive 30 mg of CNM-Au8 once daily or matching placebo over a 36-week double-blind treatment period. Efficacy will be assessed as the change in motor neuron loss as measured by electromyography (e.g., MUNIX, the primary endpoint; and secondary endpoints, including MScanFit, MUSIX, Split Hand Index, and the Neurophysiology Index). Exploratory endpoints include standard clinical, safety, and quality of life assessments. The study is being conducted at two sites in Australia and led by ALS clinicians who are experts in electrophysiology techniques. As of February 25, 2021, the study had over-enrolled with 45 of 42 planned participants in the RESCUE-ALS study with exposure to the investigational product up to 36-weeks. Twelve participants had enrolled in the long-term open-label extension following completion of the week 36 end-of-study visit.
RESCUE-ALS is being substantially funded by FightMND who provided Clene with a grant of AUD$1.37 million. In general, the grant terms from Fight MND include repayment of funds received in the event of commercialization of CNM-Au8 for the treatment of ALS in Australia from future net sales proceeds up to a mid single-digit multiplier of the original grant amount of AUD $1.37M. Funding is disbursed based on the achievement of performance milestones related to patient enrollment targets. All intellectual property rights from the study activities will be owned by the company. Results of this study are anticipated in the second half of 2021.
Healey-ALS Platform Trial
In September of 2019, the Sean M. Healey & AMG Center (“Healey Center”) for ALS at Massachusetts General Hospital selected CNM-Au8 as one of the first three drugs for inclusion in the first Platform Trial for the treatment of ALS. The Healey Center Platform Trial for ALS will test promising experimental therapeutics with a design that allows for the testing of multiple drugs simultaneously in order to rapidly identify and accelerate the development of novel therapies for ALS, while offering the advantages of reduced trial time, reduced costs and increased patient participation. The trial includes substantial financial support from philanthropic donors and the Healey Center, and provides access to 54 expert ALS clinical trial sites across the United States from the Northeast Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (“NEALS”) consortium.
The trial is a Phase 3, multicenter, double-blind, placebo controlled registrational clinical trial to assess the safety, efficacy, pharmacokinetics, and pharmacodynamics of CNM-Au8 in treating ALS. Participants will be randomized 3:1 between active treatment and placebo with active treatment equally distributed between low dose (30 mg) CNM-Au8 and high dose (60 mg) CNM-Au8. The primary endpoint is rate of change in ALSFRS-R score from baseline to week 24, with secondary endpoints of changes in slow vital capacity and hand-held dynamometry measurements. Exploratory endpoints include a combined joint-rank score based on survival and change in ALSFRS-R score from baseline to week 24, voice pathology measurements, and biofluid-based pharmacodynamic and metabolic markers.
Clene will contribute a direct fee to the Healey ALS Center toward the clinical conduct of this trial; there will be no additional licensing fees or milestone requirements. Clene will own all CNM-Au8 data while placebo data will be shared across the different treatment regimens within the platform trial. Study enrollment commenced in August 2020. Results for CNM-Au8 are anticipated in the first half of 2022 subject to the achievement of enrollment targets.
CNM-Au8 Expanded Access Program
Based on interest in the potential of CNM-Au8 to delay disease progression in ALS patients, clinical experts at Massachusetts General Hospital requested early access to use CNM-Au8 in an Expanded Access Program (“EAP”). An EAP is a potential pathway for a patient with an immediately life-threatening condition or serious disease or condition to gain access to an investigational medical product (drug, biologic, or medical device) for treatment outside of clinical trials when no comparable or satisfactory alternative therapy options are available. To qualify an EAP within the United States the following should apply, (i) a patient has a serious disease or condition, or whose life is immediately threatened by their disease or condition, (ii) there is no comparable or satisfactory alternative therapy to diagnose, monitor, or treat the disease or condition, (iii) patient enrollment in a clinical trial is not possible, (iv) potential patient benefit justifies the potential risks of treatment, and (iv) providing the investigational medical product will not interfere with investigational trials that could support a medical product’s development or marketing approval for the treatment indication. The EAP is conducted under a study protocol filed with the FDA and commenced in August 2019. The EAP will collect safety and pharmacokinetic data in ALS patients not otherwise eligible for clinical studies due to standard inclusion and exclusion criteria. As of February 25, 2021, 37 participants had been enrolled in the EAP with exposure up to 69-weeks. An EAP provides additional safety data for FDA review and will be considered as part of the safety data package for CNM-Au8, and may provide supportive long-term safety data with respect to an NDA submission should the Healey ALS platform trial result in a statistically significant treatment benefit.
REPAIR-ALS
The REPAIR-ALS Phase 2 study is modeled after the REPAIR-MS and REPAIR-PD studies, discussed previously, and will investigate the effects of CNM-Au8 on improvement of bioenergetics and brain cellular membrane markers by non-invasively measuring brain levels of these markers utilizing 31P-MRS. The REPAIR-ALS study has been approved for clinical conduct by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and is planned to commence following completion of the REPAIR-MS and REPAIR-PD programs.
Additional CSN Therapeutics in the Pipeline
Three other drug candidates are at various IND-enabling stages of research. Utilizing our CSN therapeutic drug development platform, we have developed additional drug candidates based on the transition elements silver and zinc (CNM-ZnAg) for anti-viral/anti-bacterial and wound healing applications (CNM-AgZn17), and gold and platinum (CNM-PtAu7) for oncology applications.
CNM-ZnAg, a Broad Spectrum Anti-viral and Anti-Bacterial agent in Development for Treatment of COVID-19
CNM-ZnAg was developed for use as an orally deliverable, broad-spectrum antiviral and antibacterial agent. It is formulated as an ionic solution of zinc (Zn+2) and silver (Ag+) with a limited presence (<1%) of silver Ag0 nanoparticles, all generated using the CSN platform in a manner that does not involve traditional inorganic synthesis methods utilized to generate zinc and silver compounds. The rationale for integrating a zinc-silver ionic solution was premised on the recognized historical activity of both Zn and Ag (as independent entities) for antimicrobial and antiviral disease treatment. Initial development studies both internally as well as externally from other labs revealed that when Zn2+ and Ag+ are administered together, they exhibit synergistic antiviral and antibacterial properties that are not observed when Zn2+ or Ag+, or Ag0 nanoparticles are administered singly.
In the human body, zinc is an essential structural component of <750 zinc finger transcription factors, and is a catalytic component of approximately 2000 enzymes, encompassing all known enzyme classes. Most significantly, zinc is essential for the proper function of the immune system, and is specifically involved in multiple steps in the antiviral response. Zinc has demonstrated direct antiviral properties; in addition, zinc stimulates both innate and acquired antiviral responses. Thus, zinc-based treatments are hypothesized to support systemic immunity, while also acting to specifically inhibit viral replication, viral protein processing, and/or viral-infection-related symptoms. Silver has long been studied for its anti-infective activity. Silver’s microbial-treatment properties have been documented for centuries, and silver has been the most extensively studied metal for the purpose of fighting infections and preventing food spoilage. Prophylaxis of silver nitrate against gonococcal ophthalmia neonatorum with silver ions was considered the standard of care in many countries until the end of the 20th century, prior to the advent of antibiotics. Independent research had demonstrated silver nanoparticles have been shown to be active against several types of viruses including human immunodeficiency virus, hepatitis B virus, herpes simplex virus, respiratory syncytial virus, and monkey pox virus. Silver nanoparticles and silver ions reduce viral infectivity when added concomitantly with the virus inocula, possibly by blocking interaction of the virus with the host cell.
A standard toxicology program based on ICH M3(R2) guidelines has been completed for CNM-ZnAg. The toxicity of CNM-ZnAg was evaluated at high concentrations up to the maximum feasible dose administered via oral gavage up to four times daily for 28 days in rats and 7 days in canines. Across all studies, there were no deaths, no test-article-related clinical observations, and no effects on: body weight, food consumption, hematology endpoints, clinical pathology findings, blood coagulation times, urinalysis, or urine chemistry. Standard in vivo genotoxicity studies in rodents, including a 2-day COMET assay and a 28-day evaluation of micronucleated reticulocytes, revealed no test-article effects on genotoxicity.
A seven-day human tolerability study of the dietary supplement was previously conducted by an antecedent company to determine the safety and tolerability in forty (40) healthy human volunteers. There were no self-reported adverse events and laboratory assessments indicated no significant changes from baseline in body weight, blood pressure, heart rate, liver enzymes (AST/ALT), blood glucose, or blood lipids (total cholesterol, LDL/HDL, triglycerides). There were no safety findings associated with administration of the dietary supplement over the 7-day dosing period.
Clinical Development of CNM-ZnAg as a Therapeutic Treatment for COVID-19
COVID-19 is a rapidly emerging respiratory disease, resulting in substantial morbidity and mortality. Symptoms of COVID-19 are highly variable, with most infected individuals presenting with varying degrees of respiratory distress, fever, cough, sore throat, malaise, myalgias, nausea, diarrhea, anosmia, and ageusia. The median incubation period, from exposure to symptom onset, is approximately 4 to 5 days, and 97.5% of patients who are symptomatic will have symptoms within 11.5 days after infection. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the viral infection which causes COVID-19. Due to the international infection rates and potentially serious nature of this disease, COVID-19 was characterized as a pandemic by the World Health Organization on March 11, 2020. A CDC summary of PCR-positive COVID-19 cases in the U.S. as of May 30t, 2020 showed approximately 28% were known to be symptomatic, 14% had been hospitalized, 2% were admitted to an intensive care unit, and 5% died.
To reduce disease impact on public health, a strategy of identifying, isolating, and quarantining infected or exposed individuals has been put in place to slow or stop transmission; however, these preventative activities, while necessary, do not alleviate the disease burden of individuals who have already become infected. The anti-viral therapy remdesivir is approved by the FDA for emergency use within the U.S. for treatment of hospitalized patients with COVID-19, however, the therapeutic benefit demonstrated in clinical trials was modest, and access has been limited regionally. Outside of the hospital setting, there are no therapies proven to reduce the severity or duration of COVID-19 infection. Further, the timeline and efficacy for vaccine development remains uncertain. Therefore, there is a significant unmet medical need to urgently decrease the morbidity and improve time to recovery in COVID-19 infected individuals.
Because of exigent worldwide need, Clene determined to rapidly develop CNM-ZnAg as a candidate treatment for COVID-19 based on the hypothesis that CNM-ZnAg may provide immune support benefits. On a limited basis, a dietary supplement version of ZnAg has been provided under 21 CFR 111 to support immune health. Preliminary uncontrolled observational case series with the dietary supplement yielded results suggesting oral administration of ZnAg to individuals with PCR-confirmed, COVID-19 infections may improve subject well-being and limit the duration of the disease. Results from a large case-series study of a COVID-19 outbreak in a US-based industrial food processing facility and its associated congregate housing are described below. Sixty-two (62) company employees and managers voluntarily received the ZnAg dietary supplement orally daily (while in quarantine and in congregate housing), completed a standardized daily symptom survey, and underwent repeated SARS-CoV-2 PCR testing prior to ZnAg treatment initiation and again following 7 days of ZnAg supplement intake. The study population was of predominantly Hispanic ethnicity (74%). The mean age was 33.6 (10.8) years, with 84% male. Twenty-seven (27) subjects were identified prior to supplement intake as SARS-CoV-2 positive by PCR testing. Amongst subjects with PCR+ confirmed SARS-CoV-2 at treatment start, 44% transitioned to PCR negative following 7-days of supplement administration (Fig. 11A). Amongst the 35 SARS-CoV-2 PCR negative subjects prior to treatment initiation, 88% remained SARS-CoV-2 negative by repeat PCR testing after 7-days of treatment. Amongst the 27 SARS-CoV-2 positive individuals, 24 reported symptoms consistent with COVID-19, generally self-reported as mild-to-moderate intensity. Symptom resolution (Fig. 10A), and PCR detected viral clearance (Fig. 11C) decreased rapidly following ZnAg treatment initiation consistent with a marked improvement in participants’ global impression of change (Fig. 11B). The rate of symptomatic resolution (~75%) by Day 7 appears qualitatively greater than the placebo improvement rate (~50%) from a study completed in a comparable COVID-19 non-hospitalized symptomatic patient population (Fig. 11D, Skipper et al. Ann Intern Me. 2020 Jul 16;M20-4207).
Figure 11. PCR Status and Symptomatic Changes in Food Processing Facility Workers Infected with, or Exposed to, COVID-19
Given the potential for a clinical effect together with no identified safety signals from animal toxicology or initial human tolerability studies, we are planning to investigate CNM-ZnAg in a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial to determine the efficacy and safety of CNM-ZnAg for symptomatic improvement of COVID-19. This clinical study intended for 276 patients launched in Brazil in February 2021. Brazil represents a geography with a significant number of COVID-19 cases, robust clinical infrastructure and clinical trial experience, reasonable economic costs, and limited competition for participants for the enrollment of COVID-19 clinical research. The study is a randomized double-blind placebo-controlled study of CNM-ZnAg to decrease the incidence of hospitalization (primary endpoint) at Day 28 and improve the time to symptom resolution (secondary endpoint) in PCR confirmed SARS-CoV-19 subjects aged 40 and over. The study will evaluate two different doses of CNM-ZnAg, for which will be combined for analyses versus placebo.
CNM-AgZn17 for Wound-Healing and Burn Treatment
CNM-AgZn17 consists of an ionic solution of silver and zinc in a polymer gel formulation for topical application to the skin. We have demonstrated in in vitro assays that CNM-AgZn17 has broad-based anti-viral and anti-bacterial activity against common and antibiotic resistant pathogens such as Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. We have also shown enhanced wound healing benefits in animal models of diabetic wound healing and less scar formation from during burn healing.
We are presently completing a standard toxicology program in animals to demonstrate safety in order to advance to first-in-human dosing studies. We have progressed to GLP dermal toxicity studies for topical applications expected to complete in 2022. Subject to regulatory filings of these toxicology findings and other results, we anticipate initiating a standard Phase 1 dermal First-In-Human safety study with CNM-AgZn17 with single-ascending dose and multiple-ascending dose cohorts by late 2022. The goal of this study will be to demonstrate safety sufficient to advance to Phase 2 clinical programs with CNM-AgZn17. Given the multiple preclinical benefits demonstrated to date with CNM-AgZn17, we envision a clinical program focused on healing burn and/or surgical wounds, which is anticipated to initiate in 2023.
CNM-PtAu7 - Our Oncology Targeted Nanotherapeutic
CNM-PtAu7 is a suspension of novel nanocrystals comprised of alloyed gold and platinum. We have demonstrated that treatment of human breast cancer cell lines EFM-19 and MT-3 with CNM-PtAu7 induces the expression of pro-apoptotic genes and represses the expression of anti-apoptotic genes, consistent with an anti-oncogenic effect. We have further demonstrated down-regulation of genes associated with the electron transport chain activity, which may also suppress tumorigenic activity. Further investigations related to the anti-tumor effects of CNM-PtAu7 are planned in additional malignant cell lines. CNM-PtAu7 has been patented in all major markets worldwide including the United States, Europe, China, Singapore, and Japan.
Research and Development
Overview
We are deeply invested in our research and development (“R&D”) program. Our R&D activities are essential to attaining and sustaining the position as a recognized global leader in the development of CSN therapeutics. Our R&D plan is to continue the innovation of novel nanocatalysts and ionic suspensions of metallic transition elements with recognized medicinal value and underexplored, or as yet undiscovered, physicochemical and catalytic properties.
We have developed in-house all of the technologies that are critical to our R&D processes, and guard those technologies with appropriate intellectual property protections, and will continue to do so. We conduct our research activities through an in-house R&D team at our facility in Maryland, and engage in external clinical research collaborations to support our R&D activities as well.
Internal R&D
Our internal or in-house R&D activities are executed by a group of experienced research scientists, materials scientists, engineers, molecular biologists, medical doctors, clinical trial operational specialists, and a management team with deep expertise in the biopharmaceutical industry. Our in-house R&D team has a full range of capabilities ranging from drug discovery to preclinical development to and the design and implementation of clinical trials. We believe our R&D team is experienced, qualified, and will enable us to achieve our long-term goal of developing and commercializing innovative CSN therapeutics for patients worldwide. Our in-house R&D operates functionally through four sub-teams: (1) our research engineering team, (2) biological science discovery team, (3) nonclinical development team, and (4) clinical development team which work collaboratively to ensure the success of our R&D efforts.
Our research engineering team is responsible for the development and optimization of new CSN therapeutic candidates along with developing the technical processes and infrastructure to ensure reproducible CMC batch production of our CSN therapeutic candidates. Members of our research engineering team have PhDs and/or master’s degrees in chemistry, material science and engineering, electrical engineering, and solid-state physics. Our research engineering team leader has a degree in electrical engineering and has been instrumental in the design of our electro-crystal-chemistry platform including the various continuous flows through apparatuses we use to produce our CSN therapeutics.
Our biological science discovery team is responsible for the initial characterization of CSN therapeutics, conducting biological assays, and assessing the activity and toxicity of drug candidates through in vitro and in vivo assays. Our biological discovery team assesses the CSN therapeutic candidates once initial development has been completed by our research engineering team. This team is led by an experienced research scientist who is a medical doctor and has a PhD in molecular science. Our biological discovery team collaborates closely with our research engineering team to refine our CSN candidate selection, for instance based on structural characteristics, in order to optimize the biological effects of our CSN candidate therapeutics.
Our nonclinical development team is responsible for developing a complete dataset of nonclinical animal pharmacology, toxicology, and safety studies, which is sufficient to support regulatory filings with human research ethics committees and government regulatory authorities in order to obtain approval for use in human studies. Our nonclinical development team works collaboratively with our biological science discovery team and clinical development team to translate our findings into animals and prepare for eventual studies in patients. This team also leads our external collaboration research activities with universities and academic experts. Our nonclinical development team is led by a research scientist with a PhD in Developmental Biology from Stanford University and a Master of Science degree in Genetics from the University of Cambridge where she was a Marshall Scholar. She is also an adjunct faculty member of the University of Utah School of Medicine.
Our clinical development team is led by our chief medical officer, who is a board-certified neurologist and Fellow of the American Academy of Neurology. Once our CSN therapeutic candidates have demonstrated sufficient safety and toxicology results to advance to human studies, the clinical development team designs, implements, and oversees the operational conduct of our clinical trials. The clinical trials are designed to prove our CSN therapeutics are safe and effective in the treatment of diseases.
Outsourced R&D Activities
In line with industry practice, we also outsource certain R&D activities to key academic partners, nonclinical research organizations, and to third-party clinical research organizations (“CROs”). We have collaborated with experts at key academic universities which have myelination and neuroprotection expertise. These university collaborators have conducted animal experiments to demonstrate the effects of CNM-Au8 treatment on remyelination and neuroprotection in animals and in cell-based in vitro assays. To support our research efforts, we have partnered with academic experts at The Johns Hopkins University in ALS, Cambridge University for myelination-related experiments, Northwestern University for myelination-related experiments, the George Washington University for myelination-related experiments, and the University of Edinburgh for myelination-related research. In general, we outsource the majority of toxicology, pharmacology, and toxicokinetic studies to expert nonclinical CROs.
To provide maximum flexibility and efficiency to operations, we engage industry-leading CROs to manage, conduct and support our clinical studies and to supplement our internal R&D teams’ capabilities. We apply a rigorous process to selecting CROs to conduct research studies for us; selection is based on the quality, reputation, and research experience in the field of central nervous system disorders. In addition to the scope, depth and quality of the service and product offerings of the CROs, for clinical trial management, we place emphasis on the ability of the CROs to facilitate optimal site selection, to recruit patients in a timely manner, and to conduct complex clinical trials efficiently. Our CROs are widely recognized within their functional areas of research.
We enter into separate agreements with CROs and our external partners for each clinical trial or nonclinical research project. All CROs and other external research collaborators were all independent third parties. Principal terms of the service agreements with our key CROs and external partners are summarized as follows:
●Services. The CRO, nonclinical research organization, or academic site implements and manages the study in accordance with the protocol designed by us as specified in the service agreement.
●Term. The CRO, nonclinical research organization, or academic site is required to support the clinical trial or nonclinical studies within the prescribed time limit until the end of the clinical trial.
●Payments. We are required to make payments to our partners in accordance with the payment schedule agreed by the parties.
●Intellectual property rights. We own intellectual property rights arising from the research activities related to our background intellectual property.
●Risk allocation. Each party indemnifies the other party for losses caused by its fault or gross negligence. We indemnify the CRO and external partners for theoretical risks related to CNM-Au8.
We monitor and evaluate our CROs and external research partners with various activities including site visits, ongoing project team reviews, and/or assessments by third party assessors. We strive to achieve clinical trial excellence by maintaining strong quality control measures. We perform core functions such as clinical development strategy formulation and protocol design in house, and exercise control and oversight over key functions of clinical trial management. We conduct regular site visits to oversee site initiation, patient recruitment, and data quality monitoring, except when precluded by COVID-19 related research restrictions. We also engage third party consultants to perform clinical trial audits. Data quality is further assessed by in-house data review, including medical review, document review, and monitoring report review. We will not work with a vendor who does not have processes established surrounding data privacy and safeguards to ensure compliance through the clinical trial. We have maintained a stable relationship with our CROs and other external research partners.
Clinical Trial Management
To support our clinical trials, our internal clinical trials team designs, implements, collects and analyzes data for our clinical trials. When additional services are required to support a clinical trial, we conduct a feasibility and qualification assessment for potential vendors and CROs. These vendors are vetted through review of their current operational structure and established procedures, knowledge, and experience about the study, indication, or population, and past feedback from participating clinical sites. Our internal clinical development team supervises CROs on key clinical activities, such as patient eligibility review, medical data review, and SAE review, to ensure that the performance of these CROs complies with our protocols and applicable laws, which in turn protects the integrity and authenticity of the data from our clinical trials. Our internal clinical development team holds meetings with CROs to evaluate the CRO’s performance by following up on clinical progress and resolving potential issues and risks.
Financial Grants
We have been awarded grants from various organizations, including the U.S. Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program administered by the Department of Defense, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, and FightMND, a not-for-profit registered charity in Australia, who together have issued us grants totaling approximately $2.6 million. We also receive indirect financial support for one of the clinical studies in which we participate, the Healey ALS Platform Trial, administered by the Massachusetts General Hospital, which is conducting a study of our CNM-Au8 drug candidate along with other drugs in a platform trial, at significantly lower costs to us than we would otherwise incur if we were to conduct a comparably designed study on our own at reasonable market rates.
These grants include the following terms:
●The Congressionally Directed Medical Research Program administered by the Department of Defense is an award for $1.25M for additional preclinical work in specific ALS models, which was awarded to us in December 2019. At the time of this Annual Report we had not yet finalized contracting with the Department of Defense.
●The NMSS grant is for a total of $339,000 for biomarker analyses of the VISIONARY-MS study. The grant was awarded to us in September 2019 and includes terms related to repayment of funds received in the event of commercialization of CNM-Au8 for the treatment of MS based on achievement of sales milestones up to a mid single-digit multiplier of the original grant amount. Funding is milestone based on the achievement of analytical validation and reporting to the NMSS. All intellectual property rights from grant related activities vest in the company.
●The FightMND grant is for AUD $1.37M and was awarded to us in August 2019. The grant includes terms related to repayment of funds received in the event of commercialization of CNM-Au8 for the treatment of ALS in Australia from future net sales proceeds up to a mid single-digit multiplier of the original grant amount. Funding is milestone based on the achievement of performance milestones related to patient enrollment targets. All intellectual property rights from grant related activities will be owned by the company.
●The Michael J. Fox Foundation grant was awarded to us in January 2021. The grant provides for preclinical research funding for an in vivo rodent model with CNM-Au8 treatment in well characterized alpha-synuclein over-expression, and additional research in human induced pluripotent stem cell derived neurons with commonly recognized Parkinson’s genetic defects. Funding is milestone based and all intellectual property rights from grant related activities will be owned by the company.
Manufacturing
We manufacture CSN therapeutics at our own production facility based in Maryland, USA based on novel manufacturing processes and devices that were entirely invented by us. Our Maryland manufacturing facility is compliant with GMP where we operate an ISO8 level clean room that contains the specialized electro-crystal-chemistry devices, or continuous flow trough apparatuses, that we have invented and patented to produce our CSN therapeutics from highly pure raw materials. At our present operating scale, we produce in-process gold nanocrystal suspension, the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for our lead asset, CNM-Au8, on an ongoing basis. Our current API production capabilities are fully sufficient to meet our needs for both research and development and supply for our ongoing Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials, and we believe our processes can be scaled to achieve commercially viable quantities.
Through years of intensive research and development we have fine-tuned our production and delivery processes to the point where we can consistently, reliably, and affordably produce our core drug candidates, including CNM-Au8. We have also invested considerable time and substantial resources in perfecting the handling and storage systems in a manner that maintains stability and efficacy of our nanocrystal suspensions. In general, the manufacturing process for CSN therapeutics involves the following steps:
●Sufficient quantities of processing enhancers (e.g., sodium bicarbonate, others) are dissolved in highly purified water. The resulting mixture is referred to as “process water.”
●The process water is transferred to the conditioning portion of the trough apparatus at a constant nominal rate, where the process water is exposed to an atmospheric plasma in each trough apparatus, creating “conditioned water.”
●The conditioned water then flows into the electrochemical crystal growth portion of the trough apparatus, at a constant rate, where the conditioned water is exposed to a series of pairs of wire electrodes. The flow of the conditioned water is controlled, and the electrodes are continuously monitored and controlled by computerized, automated controllers.
●The electrodes are slowly advanced at a nominal rate to ensure that the conditioned water is exposed to the same electrochemical processing conditions to ensure batch-to-batch reproducibility, thus maintaining consistent size and shapes of the nanocrystals in each nanocrystal suspension.
●In-process bulk product, API, containing elemental nanocrystals, is continuously produced. The in-process bulk product is collected into large containers.
●The nominal concentration of active drug ingredients is achieved by executing a concentration step where in-process API is treated by a proprietary concentration procedure.
●The concentrated product is verified to adhere to physiochemical release specifications.
●The concentrated bulk suspension is subsequently filtered during filling to remove any microbiological contaminants and volumetrically filled into single unit containers. The final drug candidate is assayed to ensure it meets release specifications.
We have developed plans to expand our production capacity at our Maryland facility in order to supply additional planned Phase 3 clinical studies following evaluation of the Phase 2 clinical trial results. We have the technical expertise and capabilities to expand capacity to support eventual commercialization. During Part 1 of this planned expansion, we will more than triple the number of continuous flow trough apparatus and increase our storage capacity within our existing clean room environment. During Part 2 of our planned expansion, we will scale our production capacity by more than doubling our clean-room area along with the addition of more continuous flow trough apparatus and storage reservoirs. At the completion of this planned expansion we believe we will have sufficient capacity to support multiple Phase 3 studies in addition to enabling initial commercial supply of CNM-Au8. We also have initiated design studies to significantly scale our production processes as demand for our products increases to supply commercial marketing needs. We believe our current production environment has established Clene as the leading world-class manufacturer of clean surfaced nanocrystal therapeutics, and following the completion of our planned expansion, our facilities, equipment, and processes will comply with international practices and support our long term strategic plans, taking into consideration quality, costs, manageability, expandability and controls.
License Arrangements
In 2018, we established a license agreement and an exclusive supply agreement with 4Life, an international supplier of health supplements and one of our shareholders.
Under this license agreement, we granted to 4Life an exclusive and royalty-bearing license in relation to products that are very low concentration silver, gold, and other similar very low-concentration non-pharmaceutical supplement products produced by our electro-crystal-chemistry technology platform. This exclusive grant does not include ZnAg, for which 4Life has a non-exclusive right. 4Life is allowed to develop, make, manufacture, use, sell and commercialize the licensed products worldwide within the field of dietary supplements and certain non-pharmaceutical products for human use, internally or externally, which contain metallic-based constituents that are formed by our electrochemistry manufacturing techniques. 4Life will use its reasonably diligent commercial efforts to introduce the products to certain commercial markets following regulatory approval for their sale as nutritional mineral supplements. The initial term of this license agreement commenced on August 31, 2018 and will continue until five years after 4Life’s introduction of the first nutritional supplement licensed product into the marketplace, which occurred on July 1, 2020. The license agreement may be renewed for additional five year periods by mutual agreement. Upon expiration of the license agreement the exclusive provisions in the agreement will convert to non-exclusive. The license agreement may only terminate by mutual agreement between the parties, or upon breach by either party that results in termination of the agreement under applicable law.
Under an exclusive supply agreement, 4Life will purchase the licensed products exclusively from us and we will sell the licensed products exclusively through 4Life, except for ZnAg which is not exclusively sold through 4Life. Upon the occurrence of certain future events, 4Life can achieve the right to exclusively manufacture the licensed products under the license agreement, other than ZnAg for which this right does not apply. The initial term of the exclusive supply agreement commenced on August 31, 2018 and will continue until five years after the minimum sales commencement date, which both parties anticipate will be in April 2021. The exclusive supply agreement may be renewed for additional five year periods by mutual agreement. 4Life may terminate the exclusive supply agreement for cause, which is stated to include repudiation, uncured material breach, insolvency, bankruptcy, general assignment for benefit of creditors, failure to provide reasonable assurances of financial and operational capacity, prolonged unremedied force majeure, and failure to proper notify of change in control. Clene may terminate the exclusive supply agreement in the event of a repudiation, uncured material breach, insolvency, bankruptcy or general assignment for benefit of creditors by 4Life.
At the time of commercial sales, single-digit royalty payments are owed to us by 4Life based on the size of 4Life’s basket of total product sales. Royalties are payable quarterly under the license agreement until termination of the license agreement. In addition, 4Life will pay us our fully encumbered manufacturing expenses plus a guaranteed double-digit margin. We began supplying KHC46 (Gold Factor™) and a low dose zinc-silver solution (Zinc Factor™) during the first half of 2020 under this license agreement.
To date, we have not licensed our electrochemistry platform, any CSN therapeutics or any drug candidates to any other parties.
Competition
While the industry of the treatment for central nervous system diseases is quite competitive and subject to frequent changes, there are currently no existing therapies that claim effects on remyelination and neurodegeneration in patients. CNM-Au8’s core effects of remyelination and neuroprotection provide us a globally unique first-mover-advantage for the treatment of central nervous system diseases. Together with our expanded intellectual property portfolio, we believe that it would be challenging for any potential competitors entering into the market of remyelination and neuroprotection focused therapeutics to replicate our efforts without violating our intellectual property protections.
Intellectual Property
Our intellectual property is protected through extensive global patents, institutional expertise and experience, and specialized technical know-how, which enable us to maintain our leading position in the development of CSN therapeutics for high-medical need diseases.
To date, we have over 100 issued patents worldwide and over 30 patents pending worldwide. We have world-wide rights to protect and thus commercialize our CSN therapeutics and believe that our issued, and pending patents, provide sufficient protection to secure the future commercial potential of our CSN therapeutics.
We have filed and obtained patents in the United States (US); Australia (AU); Brazil (BR); Canada (CA); China (CN); European Patent Office (EP), including Switzerland (CH), Germany (DE), Denmark (DK), Finland (FI), France (FR), Great Britain (CB), Ireland (IE), Italy (IT), Netherlands (NL), Norway (NO), Spain (ES), and Sweden (SE); Egypt (EG); India (IN); Indonesia (ID); Israel (IL); Japan (JP); Korea (KR); Mexico (MX); New Zealand (NZ); Philippines (PH); Russia (RU); Singapore (SG); and the United Arab Emirates (AE); with multiple fundamental patent families protecting our CSN therapeutics. The following table lists the material granted patent families in connection with our CSN therapeutics.
Description
Jurisdiction
Application Date (US)
Grant Date (US)
Continuous methods for treating liquids and manufacturing certain constituents (e.g., nanoparticles) in liquids, apparatuses and nanoparticles and nanoparticle/liquid solution(s) resulting therefrom (these patents relate to CNM-Au8 and ZnAg)
Issued: US (3), CA, AU, CN, ID, IL, IN, JP, KR, MX, PH.
Granted: EPO
Pending: US
January 7, 2010
November 15, 2013
August 11, 2017
January 13, 2010
August 27, 2013
December 31, 2013
August 29, 2017
October 9, 2018
September 24, 2013
July 12, 2016
Expiration dates for these patents will occur in 2028 in the applicable foreign jurisdictions and in 2030 in the US*
Continuous, semi-continuous and batch methods for treating liquids and manufacturing certain constituents (e.g., nanoparticles) in liquids, apparatuses and nanoparticles and nanoparticle/liquid solution(s) and colloids resulting therefrom (these patents relate to CNM-Au8 and ZnAg)
Issued: US (2), AU, CA, CN, EP, IN, IS, JP, KR, SG, RU; CH, DE, DK, FI, FR, IE, NL, NO, SE, GB.
Allowed: US
Pending: IN, EP
July 12, 2011
August 25,
June 30, 2015
July 31, 2018
Expiration dates for these patents will occur in 2030 in the US and the applicable foreign jurisdictions*
Novel gold-based nanocrystals for medical treatments and electrochemical manufacturing processes therefor (these patents relate to CNM-Au8)
Issued: US (2), AE, AU (3), CA, CN, ID, IN, IL, JP (3), KR (3), MX, RU, SG; CH, DE, DK, ES, FI, FR, GB, IE, IT, NL, NO, SE.
Allowed: US, AU
Pending: BR, JP, MX, PH (2)
December 28, 2012
March 28, 2017
Expiration dates for these patents will occur in 2030 in the US and the applicable foreign jurisdictions*
Novel gold-platinum based bi-metallic nanocrystal suspensions, electrochemical manufacturing processes therefor and uses for the same (these patents do not relate to any specifically named product candidates herein)
Issued: US, AE, AU, CA, CN, ID, IL, IN, JP, KR, MX, NZ, RU, SG; CH, DE, DK, ES, FI, FR, GB, IE, IT, NL, NO, SE.
Pending: BR, EG, PH
December 16, 2013
July 12, 2016
Expiration dates for these patents will occur in 2030 in the US and in 2032 in the applicable foreign jurisdictions*
Methods and treatment for certain demyelination and dysmyelination-based disorders and/or promoting remyelination (these patents relate to CNM-Au8)
Issued: AU, PH, RU, SG.
Granted: EPO
Allowed: ID, KR, MX, NZ (2)
Pending: CA, CN, IN, IL, JP, SG
NA
NA
Expiration dates for these patents will occur in 2033 in the US and the applicable foreign jurisdictions*
*expiration dates do not include possible patent extensions for certain countries
To date, we have not been involved in any proceedings in respect of, and we had not received notice of any claims of infringement of, any intellectual property rights that may be threatened or pending, in which we may be a claimant or a respondent.
Government Regulation
The FDA and other regulatory authorities at federal, state, and local levels, as well as in foreign countries, extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, import, export, safety, effectiveness, labeling, packaging, storage, distribution, record keeping, approval, advertising, promotion, marketing, post-approval monitoring, and post-approval reporting of drugs such as those Clene is developing. Clene, along with third-party contractors, are required to comply with the various preclinical, clinical, and commercial approval requirements of the governing regulatory agencies of the countries in which Clene wishes to conduct studies or seek approval or licensure of CNM-Au8 or any future drug candidate.
FDA Drug Approval Process
In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) and implementing regulations. The process required by the FDA before drug candidates may be marketed in the United States generally involves the following:
●completion of preclinical laboratory tests and animal studies performed in accordance with the FDA’s current Good Laboratory Practices regulations;
●submission to the FDA of an investigational new drug (“IND”) application, which must become effective before clinical trials may begin and must be updated annually or when significant changes are made;
●approval by an independent review board whose role is to review the research before the trial is commenced and continuously throughout the trial to assure the protection of the rights and welfare of the human subjects. These boards are often called “institutional review boards” (“IRB”);
●performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials to establish the safety and efficacy of the proposed drug candidate for its intended purpose;
●preparation of and submission to the FDA of a new drug application (“NDA”) after completion of all pivotal clinical trials that includes substantial evidence of safety and efficacy from results of nonclinical testing and clinical trials;
●a determination by the FDA within 60 days of its receipt of a NDA to file the application for review;
●satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities at which the proposed product is produced to assess compliance with GMP and to assure that the facilities, methods, and controls are adequate to preserve the drug candidate’s continued safety, purity and potency, and of selected clinical investigation sites to assess compliance with Good Clinical Practices (“GCP”);
●satisfactory completion of an FDA Advisory Committee review, if applicable; and
●FDA review and approval of the NDA to permit commercial marketing of the product for particular indications for use in the United States.
Preclinical and Clinical Development
Prior to beginning the first clinical trial with a drug candidate in the United States, Clene must submit an IND application to the FDA. An IND application is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational new drug product to humans. The central focus of an IND submission is the general investigational plan and the protocol(s) for clinical studies. The IND also includes results of animal and in vitro studies assessing the toxicology, pharmacokinetics (“PK”), pharmacology, and pharmacodynamic (“PD”) characteristics of the drug candidate; chemistry, manufacturing, and controls (“CMC”) information; and any available human data or literature to support the use of the investigational product. An IND must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA, within the 30-day time period, raises safety concerns or other questions about the proposed clinical trial. In such a case, the IND may be placed on clinical hold until the IND sponsor and the FDA resolve the outstanding concerns or questions. Submission of an IND therefore may or may not result in FDA authorization to begin a clinical trial.
Clinical trials involve the administration of the investigational product to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators in accordance with Good Clinical Practice (GCP) and regulations governing the protection of human research subjects, including the requirement that all research subjects provide voluntary informed consent for their participation in any clinical study. Clinical trials are conducted under clinical study protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the study, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety, and the effectiveness criteria to be evaluated. A separate submission to the existing IND must be made for each successive clinical trial conducted during product development and for any subsequent protocol amendments. For new indications, a separate new IND may be required. An Institutional Review Board (IRB) must review and approve the plan for any clinical trial and its informed consent form before the clinical trial begins. and must monitor the study until completed. Often each institution or clinical site has its own IRB. The IRB is responsible for ensuring that human subject’s rights and privacy are maintained. Regulatory authorities, the IRB, or the sponsor may suspend a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk or that the trial is unlikely to meet its stated objectives. Some studies also include oversight by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical study sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board (DSMB), which provides authorization for whether or not a study may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the study. The DSMB may halt the clinical trial if it determines that there is an unacceptable safety risk for subjects or other grounds, such as no demonstration of efficacy. There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical studies and clinical study results to public registries. For purposes of NDA approval, human clinical trials are typically conducted in three sequential phases (which may overlap or be combined).
●Phase 1 - The investigational product is initially introduced into a small number of healthy human subjects or patients with the target disease or condition. These studies are generally designed to test the safety, dosage tolerance, absorption, metabolism, distribution, and elimination of the investigational product in humans, the side effects associated with increasing doses, and, if possible, to gain early evidence on effectiveness.
●Phase 2 - The investigational product is administered to a larger, but still limited patient population with a specified disease or condition to evaluate the preliminary efficacy (usually based on a biomarker of disease), optimal dosages, and to identify possible adverse side effects and safety risks. Multiple Phase 2 clinical trials may be conducted to obtain information prior to beginning larger, confirmatory Phase 3 clinical trials.
●Phase 3 - The investigational product is administered to an expanded patient population to provide statistically significant evidence of relevant clinical efficacy and to further test for safety, and potentially further evaluate different dosages, generally at multiple geographically dispersed clinical trial sites. These clinical trials are intended to establish the overall risk/benefit ratio of the investigational product and to provide an adequate basis for product approval by health authorities.
In some cases, the FDA may require, or companies may voluntarily pursue, additional clinical trials after a product is approved to gain more information about the product. These studies, termed Phase 4 studies, may be implemented as a condition of approval of the NDA. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies may complete additional animal studies and develop additional information about the biological characteristics of the drug candidate, and must finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with current GMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life.
Drug companies such as Clene are subject to legal requirements restricting, or imposing penalties for, the employment or use of individuals who have been debarred or excluded under various laws, including the provisions of 21 U.S.C. §§ 335a, 335b, or 335c, 42 U.S.C. § 1320a-7, in connection with making materially false or fraudulent statements to FDA, the offering or making of any prohibited payment, gratuity or other thing of value to personnel of the FDA or any other Governmental Entity, or other acts, statements, or omissions subject to FDA’s policy titled “Fraud, Untrue Statements of Material Facts, Bribery, and Illegal Gratuities” set forth in 56 Fed. Reg. 46191 (September 10, 1991), Employment of such individuals, or the occurrence of such violations in the development and regulatory application process may prevent or delay any approval of a company’s new drug application.
NDA Submission, Review and Approval
Assuming successful completion of all required testing in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements, the results of nonclinical studies and clinical trials are submitted to the FDA as part of a New Drug Application (NDA) requesting approval to market the product for one or more indications. The NDA must include all relevant data available from pertinent preclinical and clinical studies, including negative or ambiguous results as well as positive findings, together with detailed information relating to the product’s CMC, and proposed labeling, among other things. The submission of a NDA requires payment of a substantial application user fee to FDA (unless a waiver or exemption applies).
Once an NDA has been submitted, the FDA’s goal is to review standard applications within ten months after it accepts the application for filing (a 60-day process), or, if the application qualifies for priority review, six months after the FDA accepts the application for filing. In both standard and priority reviews, the review process can be significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a product is safe and effective and the facility in which it is manufactured, processed, packed, or held meets standards designed to assure the product’s continued safety and efficacy. The FDA may convene an advisory committee to provide clinical insight on application review questions. Before approving an NDA, the FDA will typically inspect the facility or facilities where the product is manufactured. The FDA will not approve an application unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with GMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. Additionally, before approving a NDA, the FDA will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCPs. If the FDA determines that the application, manufacturing processes, or manufacturing facilities are not acceptable, it will outline the deficiencies in the submission and often will request additional testing or information. Notwithstanding the submission of any requested additional information, the FDA ultimately may decide that the application does not satisfy the regulatory criteria for approval.
After the FDA evaluates a NDA and conducts inspections of manufacturing facilities where the investigational product and/or its drug substance will be produced, the FDA may issue an approval letter or a Complete Response Letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the product with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A Complete Response Letter will describe all of the deficiencies that the FDA has identified in the NDA, except that, where the FDA determines that the data supporting the application are inadequate to support approval, the FDA may issue the Complete Response Letter without first conducting required inspections, testing submitted product lots, and/or reviewing proposed labeling. In issuing the Complete Response Letter, the FDA may recommend actions that the applicant might undertake to resolve any findings and place the NDA in condition for approval, including requests for additional information or clarification. The FDA may delay or refuse approval of a NDA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, require additional testing or information and/or require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor safety or efficacy of a product.
If regulatory approval of a product is granted, such approval will be granted for particular indications and may entail limitations on the indicated uses for which such product may be marketed. For example, the FDA may approve the NDA with a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (“REMS”), to ensure the benefits of the product outweigh its risks. A REMS is a safety strategy to manage a known or potential serious risk associated with a product and to enable patients to have continued access to such medicines by managing their safe use, and could include medication guides, physician communication plans, or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. The FDA also may condition approval on, among other things, changes to proposed labeling or the development of adequate controls and specifications. Once approved, the FDA may withdraw the product approval if compliance with pre- and post-marketing requirements is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the marketplace. The FDA may require one or more Phase 4 post-market studies and surveillance to further assess and monitor the product’s safety and effectiveness after commercialization, and may limit further marketing of the product based on the results of these post-marketing studies.
Expedited Development and Review Programs
A marketing application for a drug candidate submitted to the FDA for approval may be eligible for FDA programs intended to expedite the FDA review and approval process, such as priority review, fast track designation, breakthrough therapy, and accelerated approval.
A product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide safe and effective therapy where no satisfactory alternative therapy exists or to provide a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis or prevention of a serious disease or condition compared to marketed products. For products containing new molecular entities, priority review designation means the FDA’s goal is to take action on the marketing application within six months of the 60-day filing date (compared with ten months under standard review).
To be eligible for a fast track designation, the FDA must determine, based on the request of a sponsor, that a product is intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and demonstrates the potential to address an unmet medical need by providing a therapy where none exists or a therapy that may be potentially superior to existing therapy based on efficacy or safety factors. Fast track designation provides opportunities for more-frequent interactions with the FDA review team to expedite development and review of the product. The FDA may also review sections of the NDA for a fast track product on a rolling basis before the complete application is submitted, if the sponsor and FDA agree on a schedule for the submission of the application sections, and the sponsor pays any required user fees upon submission of the first section of the NDA. The review clock does not begin until the final section of the NDA is submitted.
In addition, under the provisions of the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act (“FDASIA”) enacted in July 2012, a sponsor can request designation of a drug candidate as a “breakthrough therapy.” A breakthrough therapy is defined as a drug that is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs, to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition, and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints, such as substantial treatment effects observed early in clinical development. Drugs designated as breakthrough therapies are also eligible for accelerated approval. The FDA must take certain actions, such as holding timely meetings and providing advice, intended to expedite the development and review of an application for approval of a breakthrough therapy.
Additionally, products studied for their safety and effectiveness in treating serious or life-threatening diseases or conditions may receive accelerated approval upon a determination that the product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit, or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit, taking into account the severity, rarity, or prevalence of the condition and the availability or lack of alternative treatments. As a condition of accelerated approval, the FDA will generally require the sponsor to perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical studies to verify and describe the anticipated effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit. In addition, the FDA currently requires as a condition for accelerated approval pre-approval of promotional materials, which could adversely impact the timing of the commercial launch of the product.
Even if a product qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the product no longer meets the conditions for qualification or decide that the time period for FDA review and approval will not be shortened. Furthermore, priority review, fast track designation, breakthrough therapy designation, and accelerated approval do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process.
Orphan Drug Designation
Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States for that drug. Orphan designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan designation, the generic identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. The orphan drug designation in and of itself does not convey any advantage in, or automatically shorten the duration of, the regulatory review or approval process. However, a drug granted orphan status allows the sponsor to receive tax credits and a user fee waiver.
If a product that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications, including a full NDA, to market the same product for the same indication for seven years, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug exclusivity does not prevent FDA from approving a different drug for the same disease or condition, or the same drug for a different disease or condition. A designated orphan product may not receive orphan exclusivity if it is approved for a use that is broader than the indication for which it received orphan designation. In addition, exclusive marketing rights in the United States may be lost if the FDA later determines that the request for designation was materially defective or if the manufacturer is unable to assure sufficient quantities of the product to meet the needs of patients with the rare disease or condition.
Post-Approval Requirements
Any products manufactured or distributed by Clene pursuant to FDA approvals are subject to pervasive and continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, record-keeping, reporting of adverse events, periodic reporting, product sampling, and distribution, and advertising and promotion of the product. After approval, most changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications or other labeling claims, are subject to FDA review and approval. There also are continuing user fee requirements, under which FDA assesses an annual program fee for each product identified in an approved NDA. Manufacturers and their subcontractors are required to register their establishments and list the drugs they manufacture with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with GMPs, which impose certain procedural and documentation requirements upon Clene. Changes to the manufacturing process are strictly regulated, and, depending on the significance of the change, may require prior FDA approval before being implemented. FDA regulations also require investigation and correction of any deviations from GMPs and impose reporting requirements upon Clene and any third-party manufacturers or packagers that it may decide to use. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain compliance with GMP and other aspects of regulatory compliance.
The FDA may withdraw approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical studies to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution restrictions or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things:
●restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of a product, mandated modification of promotional materials or issuance of corrective information, issuance by FDA or other regulatory authorities of safety alerts, Dear Healthcare Provider letters, press releases or other communications containing warnings or other safety information about the product, or complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls;
●fines, warning or untitled letters or holds on post-approval clinical studies;
●refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, or suspension or revocation of existing product approvals;
●product seizure or detention, or refusal of the FDA to permit the import or export of products; or
●injunctions, consent decrees or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.
The FDA closely regulates the marketing, labeling, advertising and promotion of biologics. A company can make only those claims relating to safety, efficacy, and conditions of use of the drug that are approved by the FDA and in accordance with the provisions of the approved label. The FDA and other agencies actively enforce the laws and regulations prohibiting the promotion of off-label uses. Failure to comply with these requirements can result in, among other things, adverse publicity, warning letters, corrective advertising, and potential civil and criminal penalties. Physicians may prescribe legally available products for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling and that differ from those tested by Clene and approved by the FDA. Such off-label uses are common across medical specialties.
Physicians may believe that such off-label uses are the best treatment for many patients in varied circumstances. The FDA does not regulate the behavior of physicians in their choice of treatments. The FDA does, however, restrict manufacturer’s communications on the subject of off-label use of their products.
Other U.S. Healthcare Laws and Compliance Requirements
In the United States, Clene’s current and future operations are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in addition to the FDA, including but not limited to, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”), which is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”), as well as other divisions of HHS (such as the Office of Inspector General, Office for Civil Rights and the Health Resources and Service Administration), the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and individual U.S. Attorney offices within the DOJ, and state and local governments. For example, Clene’s clinical research, sales, marketing and scientific/educational grant programs have to comply with the anti-fraud and abuse provisions of the Social Security Act (such as the Anti-Kickback Statute), the false claims laws, the anti-fraud provisions of and the privacy and security provisions of regulations implementing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (“HIPAA”), the Drug Supply Chain Security Act, and similar state laws, each as amended, as applicable. Clene’s business operations and current and future arrangements with investigators, healthcare professionals, consultants, third-party payors, patients, and customers may be subject to healthcare laws, regulations and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which Clene conducts its business. Such laws include, without limitation, state and federal anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, patient brokering, false claims, privacy and security, price reporting, drug distribution, and physician sunshine laws. Some of Clene’s pre-commercial activities are subject to some of these laws.
The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits, among other things, any person or entity, from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving any remuneration, directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any item or service reimbursable, in whole or in part, under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federal healthcare programs. The term remuneration has been interpreted broadly to include anything of value. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between therapeutic product manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution. The exceptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly and practices that involve remuneration that may be alleged to be intended to induce prescribing, purchasing, or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exception or safe harbor. Failure to meet all of the requirements of a particular applicable statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor does not make the conduct per se illegal under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Instead, the legality of the arrangement will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis based on a cumulative review of all of its facts and circumstances. Clene’s practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for protection under a statutory exception or regulatory safe harbor.
Additionally, the intent standard under the Anti-Kickback Statute was amended by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (“Affordable Care Act”), to a stricter standard such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute can result in significant civil and criminal fines and penalties, imprisonment, and exclusion from federal healthcare programs. In addition, the Affordable Care Act codified case law that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal False Claims Act (“FCA”) (discussed below).
The federal false claims and civil monetary penalty laws, including the FCA, which imposes significant penalties and can be enforced by private citizens through civil qui tam actions, prohibit any person or entity from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment to, or approval by, the federal government, including federal healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, knowingly making, using, or causing to be made or used a false record or statement material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government, or knowingly making a false statement to improperly avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. A claim includes “any request or demand” for money or property presented to the U.S. government. For instance, historically, pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the companies’ marketing of the product for unapproved, off-label, and thus generally non-reimbursable, uses. Penalties for federal civil False Claims Act violations may include up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus significant mandatory civil penalties, and exclusion from participation in federal healthcare programs.
HIPAA created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit, among other things, knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud or to obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations or promises, any money or property owned by, or under the control or custody of, any healthcare benefit program, including private third-party payors, willfully obstructing a criminal investigation of a healthcare offense, and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by trick, scheme or device, a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services. Like the Anti-Kickback Statute, the Affordable Care Act amended the intent standard for certain healthcare fraud statutes under HIPAA such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation.
Clene may be subject to data privacy and security regulations by both the federal government and the states in which Clene conducts its business. HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (“HITECH”), and its implementing regulations, imposes requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. Among other things, HITECH makes HIPAA’s privacy and security standards directly applicable to business associates, which are independent contractors or agents of covered entities that create, receive, maintain, or transmit protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of, to or for a covered entity. HITECH also created four new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce HIPAA and seek attorneys’ fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, many state laws govern the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways, are often not pre-empted by HIPAA, and may have a more prohibitive effect than HIPAA, thus complicating compliance efforts.
Additionally, the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act (the “Sunshine Act”), and its implementing regulations, require that certain manufacturers of drugs, devices, biological and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) report annually to CMS information related to certain payments or other transfers of value made or distributed to physicians and teaching hospitals, or to entities or individuals at the request of, or designated on behalf of, the physicians and teaching hospitals and to report annually certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Failure to report accurately could result in penalties. In addition, many states have similar statutes or regulations to the above federal laws that may be broader in scope and may apply regardless of payor. Clene may also be subject to state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government, and/or state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers, drug pricing or marketing expenditures. These laws may differ from each other in significant ways further complicating compliance efforts. Additionally, to the extent that Clene has business operations in foreign countries or sell any of Clene’s products in foreign countries and jurisdictions, including Canada or the E.U., Clene may be subject to additional regulation.
Clene may someday develop products that, once approved, may be administered by a physician. Under currently applicable U.S. law, certain products not usually self-administered (including injectable drugs) may be eligible for coverage under Medicare through Medicare Part B. Medicare Part B is part of original Medicare, the federal health care program that provides health care benefits to the aged and disabled, and covers outpatient services and supplies, including certain biopharmaceutical products, that are medically necessary to treat a beneficiary’s health condition. As a condition of receiving Medicare Part B reimbursement for a manufacturer’s eligible drugs, the manufacturer is required to participate in other government healthcare programs, including the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and the 340B Drug Pricing Program. The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the Secretary of HHS as a condition for states to receive federal matching funds for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs furnished to Medicaid patients. Under the 340B Drug Pricing Program, the manufacturer must extend discounts to entities that participate in the program.
In addition, many pharmaceutical manufacturers must calculate and report certain price reporting metrics to the government, such as average sales price (“ASP”) and best price. Penalties may apply in some cases when such metrics are not submitted accurately and timely. Further, these prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. It is difficult to predict how Medicare coverage and reimbursement policies will be applied to Clene’s products in the future and coverage and reimbursement under different federal healthcare programs are not always consistent. Medicare reimbursement rates may also reflect budgetary constraints placed on the Medicare program.
In order to distribute products commercially, Clene must comply with state laws that require the registration of manufacturers and wholesale distributors of drug products in a state, including, in certain states, manufacturers and distributors who ship products into the state even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. The federal government as well as some states also impose requirements on manufacturers and distributors to maintain records regarding the history of products in the chain of distribution. Federal law requires manufacturers to provide product tracing information to subsequent supply chain partners. The federal Drug Supply Chain Security Act (“DSCSA”) governs the system of tracing certain prescription drugs as they are distributed in the U.S. A goal of the DSCSA is to protect consumers from drugs that may be counterfeit, contaminated, stolen, or adulterated. The law requires manufacturers to, prior to or at the time of each transfer of ownership of a drug, provide the subsequent owner with transaction history, transaction information, and a transaction statement. In the event of a recall or an inquiry regarding a potentially illegitimate product, manufacturers must be able to provide information regarding the transaction history and transaction information of their products. Violations of the DSCSA may result in fines or imprisonment. In addition, many states regulate manufacturers and enforce recordkeeping and licensure requirements.
Several states have enacted legislation requiring pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state, make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials and other activities, and/or register their sales representatives, as well as to prohibit pharmacies and other healthcare entities from providing certain physician prescribing data to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for use in sales and marketing, and to prohibit certain other sales and marketing practices. All of Clene’s activities are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws.
Ensuring business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations is a costly endeavor. If Clene’s operations are found to be in violation of any of the federal and state healthcare laws described above or any other current or future governmental regulations that apply to Clene, it may be subject to penalties, including without limitation, civil, criminal and/or administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, imprisonment, exclusion from participation in government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, injunctions, private “qui tam” actions brought by individual whistleblowers in the name of the government, or refusal to allow Clene to enter into government contracts, contractual damages, reputational harm, administrative burdens, diminished profits and future earnings, additional reporting obligations and oversight if Clene becomes subject to a corporate integrity agreement or other agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws, and the curtailment or restructuring of Clene’s operations, any of which could adversely affect its ability to operate its business and results of operations.
Coverage, Pricing and Reimbursement
Significant uncertainty exists as to the coverage and reimbursement status of any drug candidates for which Clene may obtain regulatory approval. In the United States and in foreign markets, sales of any products for which Clene receives regulatory approval for commercial sale will depend, in part, on the extent to which third-party payors provide coverage and establish adequate reimbursement levels for such products. In the United States, third-party payors include federal and state healthcare programs, private managed care providers, health insurers and other organizations. Adequate coverage and reimbursement from governmental healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and commercial payors are critical to new product acceptance.
Clene’s ability to commercialize any products successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from third-party payors, which decide which therapeutics they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. Coverage and reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend upon a number of factors, including the third-party payor’s determination that use of a therapeutic is:
●a covered benefit under its health plan;
●safe, effective and medically necessary;
●appropriate for the specific patient;
●cost-effective; and
●neither experimental nor investigational.
Clene cannot be sure that coverage or reimbursement will be available for any product that Clene commercializes and, if coverage and reimbursement are available, what the level of reimbursement will be. Coverage may also be more limited than the purposes for which the product is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product for which Clene obtains regulatory approval.
Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the price, examining the medical necessity, and reviewing the cost-effectiveness, of medical products, therapies and services, in addition to questioning their safety and efficacy. Obtaining reimbursement for Clene’s products may be particularly difficult because of the higher prices often associated with branded drugs and drugs administered under the supervision of a physician. Clene may need to conduct expensive pharmacoeconomic studies in order to demonstrate the medical necessity and cost-effectiveness of its products, in addition to the costs required to obtain FDA approvals. Clene’s drug candidates may not be considered medically necessary or cost-effective by payors. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement approval of a product from a government or other third-party payor is a time-consuming and costly process that could require Clene to provide to each payor supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of Clene’s product on a payor-by-payor basis, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained. A payor’s decision to provide coverage for a product does not imply that an adequate reimbursement rate will be approved. Further, one payor’s determination to provide coverage for a product does not assure that other payors will also provide coverage for the product. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable Clene to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on its investment in product development. If reimbursement is not available or is available only at limited levels, Clene may not be able to successfully commercialize any drug candidate that it successfully develops.
Different pricing and reimbursement schemes exist in other countries. In the E.U., governments influence the price of biopharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of those products to consumers. Some jurisdictions operate positive and negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval, some of these countries may require the completion of clinical trials that compare the cost effectiveness of a particular drug candidate to currently available therapies. Other member states allow companies to establish their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs has become intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products. In addition, in some countries, cross-border imports from low-priced markets exert a commercial pressure on pricing within a country.
The marketability of any drug candidates for which Clene receives regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. In addition, political and economic pressures as well as legislative changes in the United States has increased, and Clene expects will continue to increase, the pressure on drug pricing. The downward pressure on the rise in healthcare costs in general, particularly prescription medicines, medical devices and surgical procedures and other treatments, has become very intense. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which Clene receives regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future.
Healthcare Reform
In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been, and continue to be, several legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could prevent or delay marketing approval of drug candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities, and affect the ability to profitably sell drug candidates for which marketing approval is obtained. Among policy makers and payors in the United States and elsewhere, there is significant interest in promoting changes in healthcare systems with the stated goals of containing healthcare costs, improving quality and/or expanding access. In the United States, the pharmaceutical industry has been a particular focus of these efforts and has been significantly affected by major legislative initiatives.
For example, the Affordable Care Act has substantially changed healthcare financing and delivery by both governmental and private insurers. Among the Affordable Care Act provisions of importance to the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, in addition to those otherwise described above, are the following:
●an annual, nondeductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports certain specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents apportioned among these entities according to their market share in some government healthcare programs;
●an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program to 23.1% and 13% of the average manufacturer price for most branded and generic drugs, respectively, and capped the total rebate amount for innovator drugs at 100% of the Average Manufacturer Price (“AMP”);
●changes to the Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale discounts, which through subsequent legislative amendments, has been increased to 70%, starting in 2019, off negotiated prices of applicable branded drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturers’ outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D;
●extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability to covered outpatient drugs dispensed to individuals who are enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations;
●expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs by, among other things, allowing states to offer Medicaid coverage to additional individuals and by adding new mandatory eligibility categories for individuals with income at or below 133% of the federal poverty level, thereby potentially increasing manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability;
●expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the 340B Drug Discount Program;
●a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research;
●expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the FCA and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;
●a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted, or injected;
●requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals;
●a requirement to annually report certain information regarding drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians;
●establishment of a Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation at CMS to test innovative payment and service delivery models to lower Medicare and Medicaid spending; and
●a licensure framework for follow on biologic products.
Some of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act have yet to be implemented, and there have been legal and political challenges to certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act. Clene anticipates that the Affordable Care Act, if substantially maintained in its current form, will continue to result in additional downward pressure on coverage and the price that it receives for any approved product, and could seriously harm its business. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare and other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms may prevent Clene from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize its products. Such reforms could have an adverse effect on anticipated revenue from drug candidates that Clene may successfully develop and for which it may obtain regulatory approval and may affect its overall financial condition and ability to develop drug candidates.
Further legislation or regulation could be passed that could harm Clene’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Affordable Care Act was enacted. For example, in August 2011, President Obama signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect beginning on April 1, 2013 and will stay in effect through 2027 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In January 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers, including hospitals, imaging centers and cancer treatment centers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.
Additionally, there has been increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the United States with respect to specialty drug pricing practices. Specifically, there have been several recent U.S. Congressional inquiries and proposed federal legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. Congress and the Trump administration have each indicated that it will continue to seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs. Individual states in the United States have also become increasingly active in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control biopharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing.
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), prohibits any U.S. individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with accounting provisions requiring Clene to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations.
Additional Regulation
In addition to the foregoing, state and federal laws regarding environmental protection and hazardous substances, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act, the Resource Conservancy and Recovery Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, affect Clene’s business. These and other laws govern Clene’s use, handling and disposal of various biological, and chemical substances used in, and wastes generated by, Clene’s operations. If Clene’s operations result in contamination of the environment or expose individuals to hazardous substances, Clene could be liable for damages and governmental fines. Clene believes that it is in material compliance with applicable environmental laws and that continued compliance therewith will not have a material adverse effect on its business. Clene cannot predict, however, how changes in these laws may affect its future operations.
Other Regulations
Clene is also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. Clene may incur significant costs to comply with such laws and regulations now or in the future.
Human Capital
As of March 1, 2021, we had a total of 74 employees, 63 of which were full-time, located in Utah and Maryland. The table below sets forth our employees by role:
None of our employees are represented by a labor union or are covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we believe that we have good relations with our employees.
Corporate Information
The mailing address for our principal executive office is 6550 South Millrock Drive, Suite G50, Salt Lake City, Utah 84121, and our telephone number is (801) 676-9695. Our website address is http:// https://clene.com. The information contained in or accessible from our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report, and you should not consider it part of this Annual Report. We have included our website address in this Annual Report solely as an inactive textual reference.
Executive Officers
Robert Etherington. Mr. Etherington has been Clene’s president, chief executive officer and director since April 2013 and is in charge of overall management, business, and strategy of Clene. Mr. Etherington has over 28 years of experience in commercialization of pharmaceuticals and biotech products. Mr. Etherington began his pharmaceutical career with a number of sales and marketing roles at Parke-Davis, a division of Pfizer, culminating in a Team Leader position over the drug Lipitor. He left Pfizer in 2000 to be the founding Director of Marketing during the IPO year of Swiss-based, Actelion Pharmaceuticals, focused in cardiopulmonary disease. Mr. Etherington has served on the board of BioUtah, an independent trade association serving the life science industry in the State of Utah, including a term as vice-chair, chairman and executive chair, since June 2016. Mr. Etherington has also been a director of Corsair LLC, a privately held biotechnology company, since March 2018. Mr. Etherington obtained a bachelor’s degree of art from Brigham Young University in August 1990. He received his master’s degree of business administration from Brigham Young University in April 1992, majored in business with a pharmaceutical healthcare emphasis. Mr. Etherington also completed the alumnus-granting General Management Program in Harvard University in June 2011. Mr. Etherington was selected to serve on the board of directors because, as CEO of Clene, he provides valuable operational and strategic insights to the board’s decision-making process. The board also values and benefits from Mr. Etherington’s experience in the pharmaceutical industry.
Mark Mortenson. Mr. Mortenson is Clene’s co-founder and chief science officer of Clene. Mr. Mortenson is the co-inventor of the technology platform developed to produce clean-surface nanocrystal (CSN™) therapeutics, as well as the inventor/co-inventor on 30 other US patents and hundreds of corresponding foreign patents. Mr. Mortenson is a former chief patent counsel responsible for approximately 5,500 patents and patent applications in the United States and 44 foreign countries, and is the former chief operating officer of research, development, and manufacturing for an advanced materials-based company of over 300 employees. Mr. Mortenson received his bachelor’s degrees in physics and in ceramic engineering from Alfred University in 1980, his master’s degree in material science from Pennsylvania State University in 1982, and his Juris Doctor from George Washington University in 1986.
Robert Glanzman. Dr. Glanzman has been Clene’s Chief Medical Officer since July 2019. Dr. Glanzman is board certified in neurology, and a Fellow of the American Academy of Neurology. Dr. Glanzman spent seven years as Assistant Clinical Professor at Michigan State University, where he maintained clinical practice, taught residents and acted as principal investigator for numerous clinical trials. Dr. Glanzman spent eight years at Pfizer as Senior Medical Director and Team Leader of the medical affairs team for interferon beta-1a (Rebif). In 2007, he moved to Novartis where he oversaw the successful Phase III development of fingolimod (Gilenya) and the commercial launch of interferon beta-1b (Extavia), in the US. In 2009, he was recruited by the Roche Group as Global Development Team Leader for the ocrelizumab (Ocrevus) program from the end of Phase II through the initiation of Phase III, in 2012. Following this, he held positions of increasing responsibilities at Purdue Pharmaceuticals, Nektar Therapeutics and, from December 2015 to June 2019, was Chief Medical Officer of GeNeuro S.A. Dr. Glanzman has co-authored numerous peer-reviewed publications. Dr. Glanzman received a bachelor’s degree of science in biology from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte in 1982. He obtained a doctorate in medicine from the Wake Forest University School of Medicine in 1987. Dr. Glanzman’s clinical training includes an internship in internal medicine at the NY Medical College, completed in 1988, a residency in neurology at the University of Michigan, completed in 1991, and a fellowship in diagnostic nuclear medicine at Duke University, completed in June 1992.
Dr. Ted (Tae Heum) Jeong. Dr. Jeong has been Clene’s chief financial officer since December 2020. Dr. Jeong has more than 20 years of experience as a venture capitalist and a financial executive. He is a managing partner at KSV Global Innovations, a growth-stage investment firm which he co-founded in 2018. Before becoming CFO of Clene, Dr. Jeong was CFO of Rexahn Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Nasdaq: REXN), an oncology and CNS-focused biopharmaceutical company, from 2002 to 2018, where he completed equity financings totaling more than $170 million and was also responsible for forming strategic alliances and executing license deals in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. From 1997 to 2002, he served as the Senior Investment Manager at Hyundai Venture Investment Corporation, a subsidiary of the Hyundai Motors conglomerate and one of the largest venture capital firms in South Korea, where he operated two of the first healthcare venture capital funds in Korea. From 2019 to 2021, he also served on the board of directors of Neurobo Pharmaceuticals (Nasdaq: NRBO), where he was chair of the audit committee. Dr. Jeong received his bachelor’s and master’s degrees of science in chemistry from Pohang University of Science & Technology. He also holds a master of science in finance degree from Johns Hopkins University, and a doctorate of management from the University of Maryland.
ITEM 1A.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: ecde9d43e6462413265d2ceaf736b1ea
- Approx. Length: 38415 characters