# Emerson

**Author(s):** Ralph Waldo Emerson

# Context

THIS IS A BORZOI BOOK

PUBLISHED BY ALFRED A. KNOPF

This selection by Peter Washington first published in  
Everyman's Library, 2004  
Copyright © 2004 by Everyman's Library

All rights reserved under International and Pan-American Copyright  
Conventions. Published in the United States by Alfred A. Knopf, a division of Random House, Inc., New York, and simultaneously in Canada by Random House of Canada Limited, Toronto. Distributed by Random House, Inc., New York. Published in the United Kingdom by Everyman's Library, Northburgh House, 10 Northburgh Street, London EC1V 0AT. Distributed by Random House (UK) Ltd.

US website: www.randomhouse.com/everymans

Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data  
Emerson, Ralph Waldo, 1803-1882.

[Poems. Selections]  
Emerson : poems / edited by Peter Washington.  
p. cm.—(Everyman's library pocket poets)  
eISBN: 978-0-307-82362-5  
I. Washington, Peter. II. Title. III. Series.

PS1624.A1 2004

2004046913

811′.3—dc22

v3.1

# CONTENTS

_Cover_

_Title Page_

_Copyright_

From _POEMS (1847)_

The Rhodora

The Humble-Bee

Fable

Astræa

Etienne de la Boéce

Suum Cuique

Compensation

Forbearance

Berrying

Thine Eyes Still Shined

Eros

Loss and Gain

Hamatreya

The Snow-Storm

Painting and Sculpture

Holidays

From the Persian of Hafiz

Ghaselle

Xenophanes

The Day's Ration

Blight

Musketaquid

Hymn ('By the rude bridge that arched the flood')

The Sphinx

Each and All

The Problem

To Rhea

The Visit

Uriel

The World-Soul

From _MAY-DAY AND OTHER PIECES (1867)_

Brahma

Nemesis

Fate

Freedom

Ode Sung in the Town Hall

Boston Hymn

Love and Thought

Lover's Petition

Una

Letters

Rubies

Merlin's Song

The Test

Nature I

Nature II

The Romany Girl

My Garden

The Titmouse

Days

Sea-Shore

Two Rivers

Waldeinsamkeit

Terminus

The Past

Experience

Compensation

Culture

Politics

Heroism

Character

Friendship

Beauty

Manners

Art

Spiritual Laws

Unity

Worship

Quatrains

From _SELECTED POEMS (1876)_

The Nun's Aspiration

Hymn ('We love the venerable house')

Cupido

Boston

Silence

The Three Dimensions

Motto to 'The Poet'

Motto to 'Gifts'

Motto to 'Nature'

Motto to 'Nominalist and Realist'

Motto to 'History'

South Wind

From THE UNPUBLISHED POEMS

'William does thy frigid soul'

'Perhaps thy lot in life is higher'

Song

'I spread my gorgeous sail'

'O what is Heaven but the fellowship'

'Ah strange strange strange'

'See yonder leafless trees against the sky'

'Do that which you can do'

'Few are free'

Van Buren

The Future

Rex

'And when I am entombed in my place'

'Bard or dunce is blest, but hard'

'It takes philosopher or fool'

'Tell men what they knew before'

'I use the knife'

'There is no evil but can speak'

'The sea reflects the rosy sky'

'In this sour world, O summerwind'

'Look danger in the eye it vanishes'

'As I walked in the wood'

'I sat upon the ground'

'Good Charles the spring's adorer'

'Around the man who seeks a noble end'

'In the deep heart of man a poet dwells'

'O what are heroes prophets men'

'Yet sometime to the sorrow stricken'

The Bohemian Hymn

'Kind & holy were the words'

'Divine Inviters! I accept'

'Go if thou wilt ambrosial Flower'

'In Walden wood the chickadee'

'Star seer Copernicus'

'At last the poet spoke'

'I grieve that better souls than mine'

Nantasket

Water

'Where the fungus broad & red'

'From the stores of eldest Matter'

'And the best gift of God'

'Stout Sparta shrined the god of Laughter'

'Brother, no decrepitude'

'Who knows this or that'

'Saadi loved the new & old'

'And as the light divided the dark'

'When devils bite'

'Comfort with a purring cat'

'I cannot find a place so lonely'

'This shining hour is an edifice'

'The sparrow is rich in her nest'

'Bended to fops who bent to him'

Elizabeth Hoar

'Cloud upon cloud'

'Since the devil hopping on'

'Poets are colorpots'

'Thanks to those who go & come'

'I must not borrow light'

'Comrade of the snow & wind'

'God only knew how Saadi dined'

'Friends to me are frozen wine'

'That each should in his house abide'

New England Capitalist

'On a raisin stone'

'Go out into Nature and plant trees'

'Pale Genius roves alone'

'Burn your literary verses'

'Intellect gravely broods apart on joy'

'The civil world will much forgive'

'Mask thy wisdom with delight'

'Roomy Eternity'

Terminus

'More sweet than my refrain'

'O Boston city lecture-hearing'

'A patch of meadow & upland'

'And he like me is not too proud'

'Park & ponds are good by day'

'For Lyra yet shall be the pole'

'A score of airy miles will smooth'

'All things rehearse'

'Pedants all'

'I leave the book, I leave the wine'

'Easy to match what others do'

'If wishes would carry me over the land'

Maia

'Seyd planted where the deluge ploughed'

'Forbore the ant hill, shunned to tread'

'Borrow Urania's subtile wings'

'The comrade or the book is good'

'Is the pace of nature slow?'

'Why honor the new men'

'Think not the gods receive thy prayer'

'Inspired we must forget our books'

'Upon a rock yet uncreate'

LONGER POEMS

Woodnotes I

May-Day

The Adirondacs

From _The Poet_

# From  
 _POEMS (1847)_

## **THE RHODORA**  
 _On Being Asked, Whence Is the Flower?_

In May, when sea-winds pierced our solitudes,

I found the fresh Rhodora in the woods,

Spreading its leafless blooms in a damp nook,

To please the desert and the sluggish brook.

The purple petals, fallen in the pool,

Made the black water with their beauty gay;

Here might the red-bird come his plumes to cool,

And court the flower that cheapens his array.

Rhodora! if the sages ask thee why

This charm is wasted on the earth and sky,

Tell them, dear, that if eyes were made for seeing,

Then Beauty is its own excuse for being:

Why thou wert there, O rival of the rose!

I never thought to ask, I never knew;

But, in my simple ignorance, suppose

The self-same Power that brought me there brought you.

## THE HUMBLE-BEE

Burly, dozing, humble-bee,

Where thou art is clime for me.

Let them sail for Porto Rique,

Far-off heats through seas to seek;

I will follow thee alone,

Thou animated torrid-zone!

Zigzag steerer, desert cheerer,

Let me chase thy waving lines;

Keep me nearer, me thy hearer,

Singing over shrubs and vines.

Insect lover of the sun,

Joy of thy dominion!

Sailor of the atmosphere;

Swimmer through the waves of air;

Voyager of light and noon;

Epicurean of June;

Wait, I prithee, till I come

Within earshot of thy hum, –

All without is martyrdom.

When the south wind, in May days,

With a net of shining haze

Silvers the horizon wall,

And, with softness touching all,

Tints the human countenance

With a color of romance,

And, infusing subtle heats,

Turns the sod to violets,

Thou, in sunny solitudes,

Rover of the underwoods,

The green silence dost displace

With thy mellow, breezy bass.

Hot midsummer's petted crone,

Sweet to me thy drowsy tone

Tells of countless sunny hours,

Long days, and solid banks of flowers;

Of gulfs of sweetness without bound

In Indian wildernesses found;

Of Syrian peace, immortal leisure,

Firmest cheer, and bird-like pleasure.

Aught unsavory or unclean

Hath my insect never seen;

But violets and bilberry bells,

Maple-sap, and daffodels,

Grass with green flag half-mast high,

Succory to match the sky,

Columbine with horn of honey,

Scented fern, and agrimony,

Clover, catchfly, adder's tongue,

And brier roses, dwelt among;

All beside was unknown waste,

All was picture as he passed.

Wiser far than human seer,

Yellow-breeched philosopher!

Seeing only what is fair,

Sipping only what is sweet,

Thou dost mock at fate and care,

Leave the chaff, and take the wheat.

When the fierce north-western blast

Cools sea and land so far and fast,

Thou already slumberest deep;

Woe and want thou canst outsleep;

Want and woe, which torture us,

Thy sleep makes ridiculous.

## FABLE

The mountain and the squirrel

Had a quarrel;

And the former called the latter 'Little Prig.'

Bun replied,

'You are doubtless very big;

But all sorts of things and weather

Must be taken in together,

To make up a year

And a sphere.

And I think it no disgrace

To occupy my place.

If I'm not so large as you,

You are not so small as I,

And not half so spry.

I'll not deny you make

A very pretty squirrel track;

Talents differ; all is well and wisely put;

If I cannot carry forests on my back,

Neither can you crack a nut.'

## ASTRÆA

Himself it was who wrote

His rank, and quartered his own coat.

There is no king nor sovereign state

That can fix a hero's rate;

Each to all is venerable,

Cap-a-pie invulnerable,

Until he write, where all eyes rest,

Slave or master on his breast.

I saw men go up and down,

In the country and the town,

With this prayer upon their neck, –

'Judgment and a judge we seek.'

Not to monarchs they repair,

Nor to learned jurist's chair;

But they hurry to their peers,

To their kinsfolk and their dears;

Louder than with speech they pray, –

'What am I? companion, say.'

And the friend not hesitates

To assign just place and mates;

Answers not in word or letter,

Yet is understood the better;

Is to his friend a looking-glass,

Reflects his figure that doth pass.

Every wayfarer he meets

What himself declared repeats,

What himself confessed records,

Sentences him in his words;

The form is his own corporal form,

And his thought the penal worm.

Yet shine forever virgin minds,

Loved by stars and purest winds,

Which, o'er passion throned sedate,

Have not hazarded their state;

Disconcert the searching spy,

Rendering to a curious eye

The durance of a granite ledge

To those who gaze from the sea's edge.

It is there for benefit;

It is there for purging light;

There for purifying storms;

And its depths reflect all forms;

It cannot parley with the mean, –

Pure by impure is not seen.

For there's no sequestered grot,

Lone mountain tarn, or isle forgot,

But Justice, journeying in the sphere,

Daily stoops to harbor there.

## ETIENNE DE LA BOÉCE

I serve you not, if you I follow,

Shadowlike, o'er hill and hollow;

And bend my fancy to your leading,

All too nimble for my treading.

When the pilgrimage is done,

And we've the landscape overrun,

I am bitter, vacant, thwarted,

And your heart is unsupported.

Vainly valiant, you have missed

The manhood that should yours resist, –

Its complement; but if I could,

In severe or cordial mood,

Lead you rightly to my altar,

Where the wisest Muses falter,

And worship that world-warming spark

Which dazzles me in midnight dark,

Equalizing small and large,

While the soul it doth surcharge,

That the poor is wealthy grown,

And the hermit never alone, –

The traveller and the road seem one

With the errand to be done, –

That were a man's and lover's part,

That were Freedom's whitest chart.

## SUUM CUIQUE

The rain has spoiled the farmer's day;

Shall sorrow put my books away?

Thereby are two days lost:

Nature shall mind her own affairs;

I will attend my proper cares,

In rain, or sun, or frost.

## COMPENSATION

Why should I keep holiday

When other men have none?

Why but because, when these are gay,

I sit and mourn alone?

And why, when mirth unseals all tongues,

Should mine alone be dumb?

Ah! late I spoke to silent throngs,

And now their hour is come.

## FORBEARANCE

Hast thou named all the birds without a gun?

Loved the wood-rose, and left it on its stalk?

At rich men's tables eaten bread and pulse?

Unarmed, faced danger with a heart of trust?

And loved so well a high behavior,

In man or maid, that thou from speech refrained,

Nobility more nobly to repay?

O, be my friend, and teach me to be thine!

## BERRYING

'May be true what I had heard, –

Earth's a howling wilderness,

Truculent with fraud and force,'

Said I, strolling through the pastures,

And along the river-side.

Caught among the blackberry vines,

Feeding on the Ethiops sweet,

Pleasant fancies overtook me.

I said, 'What influence me preferred,

Elect, to dreams thus beautiful?'

The vines replied, 'And didst thou deem

No wisdom to our berries went?'

## THINE EYES STILL SHINED

Thine eyes still shined for me, though far

I lonely roved the land or sea:

As I behold yon evening star,

Which yet beholds not me.

This morn I climbed the misty hill,

And roamed the pastures through;

How danced thy form before my path

Amidst the deep-eyed dew!

When the redbird spread his sable wing,

And showed his side of flame;

When the rosebud ripened to the rose,

In both I read thy name.

## EROS

The sense of the world is short, –

Long and various the report, –

To love and be beloved;

Men and gods have not outlearned it;

And, how oft soe'er they've turned it,

'Tis not to be improved.

## LOSS AND GAIN

Virtue runs before the Muse,

And defies her skill;

She is rapt, and doth refuse

To wait a painter's will.

Star-adoring, occupied,

Virtue cannot bend her

Just to please a poet's pride,

To parade her splendor.

The bard must be with good intent

No more his, but hers;

Must throw away his pen and paint,

Kneel with worshippers.

Then, perchance, a sunny ray

From the heaven of fire,

His lost tools may overpay,

And better his desire.

## HAMATREYA

Minott, Lee, Willard, Hosmer, Meriam, Flint

Possessed the land which rendered to their toil

Hay, corn, roots, hemp, flax, apples, wool, and wood.

Each of these landlords walked amidst his farm,

Saying, ' 'Tis mine, my children's, and my name's:

How sweet the west wind sounds in my own trees!

How graceful climb those shadows on my hill!

I fancy these pure waters and the flags

Know me, as does my dog: we sympathize;

And, I affirm, my actions smack of the soil.'

Where are these men? Asleep beneath their grounds;

And strangers, fond as they, their furrows plough.

Earth laughs in flowers, to see her boastful boys

Earth-proud, proud of the earth which is not theirs;

Who steer the plough, but cannot steer their feet

Clear of the grave.

They added ridge to valley, brook to pond,

And sighed for all that bounded their domain.

'This suits me for a pasture; that's my park;

We must have clay, lime, gravel, granite-ledge,

And misty lowland, where to go for peat.

The land is well, – lies fairly to the south.

'Tis good, when you have crossed the sea and back,

To find the sitfast acres where you left them.'

Ah! the hot owner sees not Death, who adds

Him to his land, a lump of mould the more.

Hear what the Earth says: –

##  EARTH-SONG

'Mine and yours;

Mine, not yours.

Earth endures;

Stars abide –

Shine down in the old sea;

Old are the shores;

But where are old men?

I who have seen much,

Such have I never seen.

'The lawyer's deed

Ran sure,

In tail,

To them, and to their heirs

Who shall succeed,

Without fail,

Forevermore.

'Here is the land,

Shaggy with wood,

With its old valley,

Mound, and flood.

But the heritors?

Fled like the flood's foam, –

The lawyer, and the laws,

And the kingdom,

Clean swept herefrom.

'They called me theirs,

Who so controlled me;

Yet every one

Wished to stay, and is gone.

How am I theirs,

If they cannot hold me,

But I hold them?'

When I heard the Earth-song,

I was no longer brave;

My avarice cooled

Like lust in the chill of the grave.

## THE SNOW-STORM

Announced by all the trumpets of the sky,

Arrives the snow, and, driving o'er the fields,

Seems nowhere to alight: the whited air

Hides hills and woods, the river, and the heaven,

And veils the farm-house at the garden's end.

The sled and traveller stopped, the courier's feet

Delayed, all friends shut out, the housemates sit

Around the radiant fireplace, enclosed

In a tumultuous privacy of storm.

Come see the north wind's masonry.

Out of an unseen quarry evermore

Furnished with tile, the fierce artificer

Curves his white bastions with projected roof

Round every windward stake, or tree, or door.

Speeding, the myriad-handed, his wild work

So fanciful, so savage, nought cares he

For number or proportion. Mockingly,

On coop or kennel he hangs Parian wreaths;

A swan-like form invests the hidden thorn;

Fills up the farmer's lane from wall to wall,

Maugre the farmer's sighs; and, at the gate,

A tapering turret overtops the work.

And when his hours are numbered, and the world

Is all his own, retiring, as he were not,

Leaves, when the sun appears, astonished Art

To mimic in slow structures, stone by stone,

Built in an age, the mad wind's night-work,

The frolic architecture of the snow.

## PAINTING AND SCULPTURE

The sinful painter drapes his goddess warm,

Because she still is naked, being dressed:

The godlike sculptor will not so deform

Beauty, which limbs and flesh enough invest.

## HOLIDAYS

From fall to spring the russet acorn,

Fruit beloved of maid and boy,

Lent itself beneath the forest,

To be the children's toy.

Pluck it now! In vain, – thou canst not;

Its root has pierced yon shady mound;

Toy no longer – it has duties;

It is anchored in the ground.

Year by year the rose-lipped maiden,

Playfellow of young and old,

Was frolic sunshine, dear to all men,

More dear to one than mines of gold.

Whither went the lovely hoyden?

Disappeared in blessed wife;

Servant to a wooden cradle,

Living in a baby's life.

Still thou playest; – short vacation

Fate grants each to stand aside;

Now must thou be man and artist, –

'Tis the turning of the tide.

## FROM THE PERSIAN OF HAFIZ

Butler, fetch the ruby wine

Which with sudden greatness fills us;

Pour for me, who in my spirit

Fail in courage and performance.

Bring this philosophic stone,

Karun's treasure, Noah's age;

Haste, that by thy means I open

All the doors of luck and life.

Bring to me the liquid fire

Zoroaster sought in dust:

To Hafiz, revelling, 'tis allowed

To pray to Matter and to Fire.

Bring the wine of Jamschid's glass,

Which glowed, ere time was, in the Néant;

Bring it me, that through its force

I, as Jamschid, see through worlds.

Wisely said the Kaisar Jamschid,

'The world's not worth a barleycorn:'

Let flute and lyre lordly speak;

Lees of wine outvalue crowns.

Bring me, boy, the veiled beauty,

Who in ill-famed houses sits:

Bring her forth; my honest name

Freely barter I for wine.

Bring me, boy, the fire-water; –

Drinks the lion, the woods burn;

Give it me, that I storm heaven,

And tear the net from the archwolf.

Wine wherewith the Houris teach

Souls the ways of paradise!

On the living coals I'll set it,

And therewith my brain perfume.

Bring me wine, through whose effulgence

Jam and Chosroes yielded light;

Wine, that to the flute I sing

Where is Jam, and where is Kauss.

Bring the blessing of old times, –

Bless the old, departed shahs!

Bring me wine which spendeth lordship,

Wine whose pureness searcheth hearts;

Bring it me, the shah of hearts!

Give me wine to wash me clean

Of the weather-stains of cares,

See the countenance of luck.

Whilst I dwell in spirit-gardens,

Wherefore stand I shackled here?

Lo, this mirror shows me all!

Drunk, I speak of purity,

Beggar, I of lordship speak;

When Hafiz in his revel sings,

Shouteth Sohra in her sphere.

Fear the changes of a day:

Bring wine which increases life.

Since the world is all untrue,

Let the trumpets thee remind

How the crown of Kobad vanished.

Be not certain of the world, –

'Twill not spare to shed thy blood.

Desperate of the world's affair

Came I running to the wine-house.

Bring me wine which maketh glad,

That I may my steed bestride,

Through the course career with Rustem, –

Gallop to my heart's content;

That I reason quite expunge,

And plant banners on the worlds.

Let us make our glasses kiss;

Let us quench the sorrow-cinders.

To-day let us drink together;

_Now_ and _then_ will never agree.

Whoso has arranged a banquet

Is with glad mind satisfied,

'Scaping from the snares of Dews.

Woe for youth! 'tis gone in the wind:

Happy he who spent it well!

Bring wine, that I overspring

Both worlds at a single leap.

Stole, at dawn, from glowing spheres

Call of Houris to my sense: –

'O lovely bird, delicious soul,

Spread thy pinions, break thy cage;

Sit on the roof of seven domes,

Where the spirits take their rest.'

In the time of Bisurdschimihr,

Menutscheher's beauty shined.

On the beaker of Nushirvan,

Wrote they once in elder times,

'Hear the counsel; learn from us

Sample of the course of things:

The earth – it is a place of sorrow,

Scanty joys are here below;

Who has nothing has no sorrow.'

Where is Jam, and where his cup?

Solomon and his mirror, where?

Which of the wise masters knows

What time Kauss and Jam existed?

When those heroes left this world,

Left they nothing but their names.

Bind thy heart not to the earth;

When thou goest, come not back;

Fools squander on the world their hearts, –

League with it is feud with heaven:

Never gives it what thou wishest.

A cup of wine imparts the sight

Of the five heaven-domes with nine steps:

Whoso can himself renounce

Without support shall walk thereon; –

Who discreet is is not wise.

Give me, boy, the Kaisar cup,

Which rejoices heart and soul.

Under wine and under cup

Signify we purest love.

Youth like lightning disappears;

Life goes by us as the wind.

Leave the dwelling with six doors,

And the serpent with nine heads;

Life and silver spend thou freely

If thou honorest the soul.

Haste into the other life;

All is vain save God alone.

Give me, boy, this toy of Dæmons:

When the cup of Jam was lost,

Him availed the world no more.

Fetch the wineglass made of ice;

Wake the torpid heart with wine.

Every clod of loam beneath us

Is a skull of Alexander;

Oceans are the blood of princes;

Desert sands the dust of beauties.

More than one Darius was there

Who the whole world overcame;

But, since these gave up the ghost,

Thinkest thou they never were?

Boy, go from me to the shah;

Say to him, 'Shah, crowned as Jam,

Win thou first the poor man's heart,

Then the glass; so know the world.

Empty sorrows from the earth

Canst thou drive away with wine.

Now in thy throne's recent beauty,

In the flowing tide of power,

Moon of fortune, mighty king,

Whose tiara sheddeth lustre,

Peace secure to fish and fowl,

Heart and eye-sparkle to saints; –

Shoreless is the sea of praise;

I content me with a prayer: –

From Nisami's lyric page,

Fairest ornament of speech,

Here a verse will I recite,

Verse more beautiful than pearls:

"More kingdoms wait thy diadem

Than are known to thee by name;

Thee may sovran Destiny

Lead to victory day by day!" '

## GHASELLE  
 _from the Persian of Hafiz_

Of Paradise, O hermit wise,

Let us renounce the thought;

Of old therein our names of sin

Allah recorded not.

Who dear to God on earthly sod

No corn-grain plants,

The same is glad that life is had,

Though corn he wants.

O just fakir, with brow austere,

Forbid me not the vine;

On the first day, poor Hafiz' clay

Was kneaded up with wine.

Thy mind the mosque and cool kiosk,

Spare fast and orisons;

Mine me allows the drinking-house,

And sweet chase of the nuns.

He is no dervise, Heaven slights his service,

Who shall refuse

There in the banquet to pawn his blanket

For Schiraz' juice.

Who his friend's skirt or hem of his shirt

Shall spare to pledge,

To him Eden's bliss and angel's kiss

Shall want their edge.

Up! Hafiz, grace from high God's face

Beams on thee pure;

Shy thou not hell, and trust thou well,

Heaven is secure.

## XENOPHANES

By fate, not option, frugal Nature gave

One scent to hyson and to wall-flower,

One sound to pine-groves and to waterfalls,

One aspect to the desert and the lake.

It was her stern necessity: all things

Are of one pattern made; bird, beast, and flower,

Song, picture, form, space, thought, and character,

Deceive us, seeming to be many things,

And are but one. Beheld far off, they differ

As God and devil; bring them to the mind,

They dull its edge with their monotony.

To know one element, explore another,

And in the second reappears the first.

The specious panorama of a year

But multiplies the image of a day, –

A belt of mirrors round a taper's flame;

And universal Nature, through her vast

And crowded whole, an infinite paroquet,

Repeats one note.

## THE DAY'S RATION

When I was born,

From all the seas of strength Fate filled a chalice,

Saying, 'This be thy portion, child; this chalice,

Less than a lily's, thou shalt daily draw

From my great arteries, – nor less, nor more.'

All substances the cunning chemist Time

Melts down into that liquor of my life, –

Friends, foes, joys, fortunes, beauty, and disgust.

And whether I am angry or content,

Indebted or insulted, loved or hurt,

All he distils into sidereal wine

And brims my little cup; heedless, alas!

Of all he sheds how little it will hold,

How much runs over on the desert sands.

If a new Muse draw me with splendid ray,

And I uplift myself into its heaven,

The needs of the first sight absorb my blood,

And all the following hours of the day

Drag a ridiculous age.

To-day, when friends approach, and every hour

Brings book, or starbright scroll of genius,

The little cup will hold not a bead more,

And all the costly liquor runs to waste;

Nor gives the jealous lord one diamond drop

So to be husbanded for poorer days.

Why need I volumes, if one word suffice?

Why need I galleries, when a pupil's draught

After the master's sketch fills and o'erfills

My apprehension? why seek Italy,

Who cannot circumnavigate the sea

Of thoughts and things at home, but still adjourn

The nearest matters for a thousand days?

## BLIGHT

Give me truths;

For I am weary of the surfaces,

And die of inanition. If I knew

Only the herbs and simples of the wood,

Rue, cinquefoil, gill, vervain, and agrimony,

Blue-vetch, and trillium, hawkweed, sassafras,

Milkweeds, and murky brakes, quaint pipes, and sundew,

And rare and virtuous roots, which in these woods

Draw untold juices from the common earth,

Untold, unknown, and I could surely spell

Their fragrance, and their chemistry apply

By sweet affinities to human flesh,

Driving the foe and stablishing the friend, –

O, that were much, and I could be a part

Of the round day, related to the sun

And planted world, and full executor

Of their imperfect functions.

But these young scholars, who invade our hills,

Bold as the engineer who fells the wood,

And travelling often in the cut he makes,

Love not the flower they pluck, and know it not,

And all their botany is Latin names.

The old men studied magic in the flowers,

And human fortunes in astronomy,

And an omnipotence in chemistry,

Preferring things to names, for these were men,

Were unitarians of the united world,

And, wheresoever their clear eye-beams fell,

They caught the footsteps of the SAME. Our eyes

Are armed, but we are strangers to the stars,

And strangers to the mystic beast and bird,

And strangers to the plant and to the mine.

The injured elements say, 'Not in us;'

And night and day, ocean and continent,

Fire, plant, and mineral say, 'Not in us,'

And haughtily return us stare for stare.

For we invade them impiously for gain;

We devastate them unreligiously,

And coldly ask their pottage, not their love.

Therefore they shove us from them, yield to us

Only what to our griping toil is due;

But the sweet affluence of love and song,

The rich results of the divine consents

Of man and earth, of world beloved and lover,

The nectar and ambrosia, are withheld;

And in the midst of spoils and slaves, we thieves

And pirates of the universe, shut out

Daily to a more thin and outward rind,

Turn pale and starve. Therefore, to our sick eyes,

The stunted trees look sick, the summer short,

Clouds shade the sun, which will not tan our hay,

And nothing thrives to reach its natural term;

And life, shorn of its venerable length,

Even at its greatest space is a defeat,

And dies in anger that it was a dupe;

And, in its highest noon and wantonness,

Is early frugal, like a beggar's child;

With most unhandsome calculation taught,

Even in the hot pursuit of the best aims

And prizes of ambition, checks its hand,

Like Alpine cataracts frozen as they leaped,

Chilled with a miserly comparison

Of the toy's purchase with the length of life.

## MUSKETAQUID

Because I was content with these poor fields,

Low, open meads, slender and sluggish streams,

And found a home in haunts which others scorned,

The partial wood-gods overpaid my love,

And granted me the freedom of their state,

And in their secret senate have prevailed

With the dear, dangerous lords that rule our life,

Made moon and planets parties to their bond,

And through my rock-like, solitary wont

Shot million rays of thought and tenderness.

For me, in showers, in sweeping showers, the spring

Visits the valley; – break away the clouds, –

I bathe in the morn's soft and silvered air,

And loiter willing by yon loitering stream.

Sparrows far off, and nearer, April's bird,

Blue-coated, – flying before from tree to tree,

Courageous, sing a delicate overture

To lead the tardy concert of the year.

Onward and nearer rides the sun of May;

And wide around, the marriage of the plants

Is sweetly solemnized. Then flows amain

The surge of summer's beauty; dell and crag,

Hollow and lake, hill-side, and pine arcade,

Are touched with genius. Yonder ragged cliff

Has thousand faces in a thousand hours.

Beneath low hills, in the broad interval

Through which at will our Indian rivulet

Winds mindful still of sannup and of squaw,

Whose pipe and arrow oft the plough unburies,

Here in pine houses built of new fallen trees,

Supplanters of the tribe, the farmers dwell.

Traveller, to thee, perchance, a tedious road,

Or, it may be, a picture; to these men,

The landscape is an armory of powers,

Which, one by one, they know to draw and use.

They harness beast, bird, insect, to their work;

They prove the virtues of each bed of rock,

And, like the chemist mid his loaded jars,

Draw from each stratum its adapted use

To drug their crops or weapon their arts withal.

They turn the frost upon their chemic heap,

They set the wind to winnow pulse and grain,

They thank the spring-flood for its fertile slime,

And, on cheap summit-levels of the snow,

Slide with the sledge to inaccessible woods

O'er meadows bottomless. So, year by year,

They fight the elements with elements,

(That one would say, meadow and forest walked,

Transmuted in these men to rule their like,)

And by the order in the field disclose

The order regnant in the yeoman's brain.

What these strong masters wrote at large in miles,

I followed in small copy in my acre;

For there's no rood has not a star above it;

The cordial quality of pear or plum

Ascends as gladly in a single tree

As in broad orchards resonant with bees;

And every atom poises for itself,

And for the whole. The gentle deities

Showed me the lore of colors and of sounds,

The innumerable tenements of beauty,

The miracle of generative force,

Far-reaching concords of astronomy

Felt in the plants, and in the punctual birds;

Better, the linked purpose of the whole,

And, chiefest prize, found I true liberty

In the glad home plain-dealing nature gave.

The polite found me impolite; the great

Would mortify me, but in vain; for still

I am a willow of the wilderness,

Loving the wind that bent me. All my hurts

My garden spade can heal. A woodland walk,

A quest of river-grapes, a mocking thrush,

A wild-rose, or rock-loving columbine,

Salve my worst wounds.

For thus the wood-gods murmured in my ear:

'Dost love our manners? Canst thou silent lie?

Canst thou, thy pride forgot, like nature pass

Into the winter night's extinguished mood?

Canst thou shine now, then darkle,

And being latent feel thyself no less?

As, when the all-worshipped moon attracts the eye,

The river, hill, stems, foliage are obscure

Yet envies none, none are unenviable.'

## HYMN  
 _Sung at the Completion of the Concord Monument_ ,  
 _April 19, 1836_

By the rude bridge that arched the flood,

Their flag to April's breeze unfurled,

Here once the embattled farmers stood,

And fired the shot heard round the world.

The foe long since in silence slept;

Alike the conqueror silent sleeps;

And Time the ruined bridge has swept

Down the dark stream which seaward creeps.

On this green bank, by this soft stream,

We set to-day a votive stone;

That memory may their deed redeem,

When, like our sires, our sons are gone.

Spirit, that made those heroes dare

To die, or leave their children free,

Bid Time and Nature gently spare

The shaft we raise to them and thee.

## THE SPHINX

The Sphinx is drowsy,

Her wings are furled;

Her ear is heavy,

She broods on the world.

'Who'll tell me my secret,

The ages have kept? –

I awaited the seer,

While they slumbered and slept; –

'The fate of the man-child;

The meaning of man;

Known fruit of the unknown;

Dædalian plan;

Out of sleeping a waking,

Out of waking a sleep;

Life death overtaking;

Deep underneath deep?

'Erect as a sunbeam,

Upspringeth the palm;

The elephant browses,

Undaunted and calm;

In beautiful motion

The thrush plies his wings;

Kind leaves of his covert,

Your silence he sings.

'The waves, unashamed,

In difference sweet,

Play glad with the breezes,

Old playfellows meet;

The journeying atoms,

Primordial wholes,

Firmly draw, firmly drive,

By their animate poles.

'Sea, earth, air, sound, silence,

Plant, quadruped, bird,

By one music enchanted,

One deity stirred, –

Each the other adorning,

Accompany still;

Night veileth the morning,

The vapor the hill.

'The babe by its mother

Lies bathed in joy;

Glide its hours uncounted, –

The sun is its toy;

Shines the peace of all being,

Without cloud, in its eyes;

And the sum of the world

In soft miniature lies.

'But man crouches and blushes,

Absconds and conceals;

He creepeth and peepeth,

He palters and steals;

Infirm, melancholy,

Jealous glancing around,

An oaf, an accomplice,

He poisons the ground.

'Outspoke the great mother,

Beholding his fear; –

At the sound of her accents

Cold shuddered the sphere: –

"Who has drugged my boy's cup?

Who has mixed my boy's bread?

Who, with sadness and madness,

Has turned the man-child's head?" '

I heard a poet answer,

Aloud and cheerfully,

'Say on, sweet Sphinx! thy dirges

Are pleasant songs to me.

Deep love lieth under

These pictures of time;

They fade in the light of

Their meaning sublime.

'The fiend that man harries

Is love of the Best;

Yawns the pit of the Dragon,

Lit by rays from the Blest.

The Lethe of nature

Can't trance him again,

Whose soul sees the perfect,

Which his eyes seek in vain.

'Profounder, profounder,

Man's spirit must dive;

To his aye-rolling orbit

No goal will arrive;

The heavens that now draw him

With sweetness untold,

Once found, – for new heavens

He spurneth the old.

'Pride ruined the angels,

Their shame them restores;

And the joy that is sweetest

Lurks in stings of remorse.

Have I a lover

Who is noble and free? –

I would he were nobler

Than to love me.

'Eterne alternation

Now follows, now flies;

And under pain, pleasure, –

Under pleasure, pain lies.

Love works at the centre,

Heart-heaving alway;

Forth speed the strong pulses

To the borders of day.

'Dull Sphinx, Jove keep thy five wits!

Thy sight is growing blear;

Rue, myrrh, and cummin for the Sphinx –

Her muddy eyes to clear!' –

The old Sphinx bit her thick lip, –

Said, 'Who taught thee me to name?

I am thy spirit, yoke-fellow,

Of thine eye I am eyebeam.

'Thou art the unanswered question;

Couldst see thy proper eye,

Alway it asketh, asketh;

And each answer is a lie.

So take thy quest through nature,

It through thousand natures ply;

Ask on, thou clothed eternity;

Time is the false reply.'

Uprose the merry Sphinx,

And crouched no more in stone;

She melted into purple cloud,

She silvered in the moon;

She spired into a yellow flame;

She flowered in blossoms red;

She flowed into a foaming wave;

She stood Monadnoc's head.

Thorough a thousand voices

Spoke the universal dame:

'Who telleth one of my meanings,

Is master of all I am.'

## EACH AND ALL

Little thinks, in the field, yon red-cloaked clown,

Of thee from the hill-top looking down;

The heifer that lows in the upland farm,

Far-heard, lows not thine ear to charm;

The sexton, tolling his bell at noon,

Deems not that great Napoleon

Stops his horse, and lists with delight,

Whilst his files sweep round yon Alpine height;

Nor knowest thou what argument

Thy life to thy neighbor's creed has lent.

All are needed by each one;

Nothing is fair or good alone.

I thought the sparrow's note from heaven,

Singing at dawn on the alder bough;

I brought him home, in his nest, at even;

He sings the song, but it pleases not now,

For I did not bring home the river and sky; –

He sang to my ear, – they sang to my eye.

The delicate shells lay on the shore;

The bubbles of the latest wave

Fresh pearls to their enamel gave;

And the bellowing of the savage sea

Greeted their safe escape to me.

I wiped away the weeds and foam,

I fetched my sea-born treasures home;

But the poor, unsightly, noisome things

Had left their beauty on the shore,

With the sun, and the sand, and the wild uproar.

The lover watched his graceful maid,

As 'mid the virgin train she strayed,

Nor knew her beauty's best attire

Was woven still by the snow-white choir.

At last she came to his hermitage,

Like the bird from the woodlands to the cage; –

The gay enchantment was undone,

A gentle wife, but fairy none.

Then I said, 'I covet truth;

Beauty is unripe childhood's cheat;

I leave it behind with the games of youth.'–

As I spoke, beneath my feet

The ground-pine curled its pretty wreath,

Running over the club-moss burrs;

I inhaled the violet's breath;

Around me stood the oaks and firs;

Pine-cones and acorns lay on the ground,

Over me soared the eternal sky,

Full of light and of deity;

Again I saw, again I heard,

The rolling river, the morning bird; –

Beauty through my senses stole;

I yielded myself to the perfect whole.

## THE PROBLEM

I like a church; I like a cowl;

I love a prophet of the soul;

And on my heart monastic aisles

Fall like sweet strains, or pensive smiles;

Yet not for all his faith can see

Would I that cowled churchman be.

Why should the vest on him allure,

Which I could not on me endure?

Not from a vain or shallow thought

His awful Jove young Phidias brought;

Never from lips of cunning fell

The thrilling Delphic oracle;

Out from the heart of nature rolled

The burdens of the Bible old;

The litanies of nations came,

Like the volcano's tongue of flame,

Up from the burning core below, –

The canticles of love and woe;

The hand that rounded Peter's dome,

And groined the aisles of Christian Rome,

Wrought in a sad sincerity;

Himself from God he could not free;

He builded better than he knew; –

The conscious stone to beauty grew.

Know'st thou what wove yon woodbird's nest

Of leaves, and feathers from her breast?

Or how the fish outbuilt her shell,

Painting with morn each annual cell?

Or how the sacred pine-tree adds

To her old leaves new myriads?

Such and so grew these holy piles,

Whilst love and terror laid the tiles.

Earth proudly wears the Parthenon,

As the best gem upon her zone;

And Morning opes with haste her lids,

To gaze upon the Pyramids;

O'er England's abbeys bends the sky,

As on its friends, with kindred eye;

For, out of Thought's interior sphere,

These wonders rose to upper air;

And Nature gladly gave them place,

Adopted them into her race,

And granted them an equal date

With Andes and with Ararat.

These temples grew as grows the grass;

Art might obey, but not surpass.

The passive Master lent his hand

To the vast soul that o'er him planned;

And the same power that reared the shrine,

Bestrode the tribes that knelt within.

Ever the fiery Pentecost

Girds with one flame the countless host,

Trances the heart through chanting choirs,

And through the priest the mind inspires.

The word unto the prophet spoken

Was writ on tables yet unbroken;

The word by seers or sibyls told,

In groves of oak, or fanes of gold,

Still floats upon the morning wind,

Still whispers to the willing mind.

One accent of the Holy Ghost

The heedless world hath never lost.

I know what say the fathers wise, –

The Book itself before me lies,

Old _Chrysostom_ , best Augustine,

And he who blent both in his line,

The younger _Golden Lips_ or mines,

Taylor, the Shakspeare of divines.

His words are music in my ear,

I see his cowled portrait dear;

And yet, for all his faith could see,

I would not the good bishop be.

## TO RHEA

Thee, dear friend, a brother soothes,

Not with flatteries, but truths,

Which tarnish not, but purify

To light which dims the morning's eye.

I have come from the spring-woods,

From the fragrant solitudes; –

Listen what the poplar-tree

And murmuring waters counselled me.

If with love thy heart has burned;

If thy love is unreturned;

Hide thy grief within thy breast,

Though it tear thee unexpressed;

For when love has once departed

From the eyes of the false-hearted,

And one by one has torn off quite

The bandages of purple light;

Though thou wert the loveliest

Form the soul had ever dressed,

Thou shalt seem, in each reply,

A vixen to his altered eye;

Thy softest pleadings seem too bold,

Thy praying lute will seem to scold;

Though thou kept the straightest road,

Yet thou errest far and broad.

But thou shalt do as do the gods

In their cloudless periods;

For of this lore be thou sure, –

Though thou forget, the gods, secure,

Forget never their command,

But make the statute of this land.

As they lead, so follow all,

Ever have done, ever shall.

Warning to the blind and deaf,

'Tis written on the iron leaf,

_Who drinks of Cupid's nectar cup_

_Loveth downward, and not up;_

Therefore, who loves, of gods or men,

Shall not by the same be loved again;

His sweetheart's idolatry

Falls, in turn, a new degree.

When a god is once beguiled

By beauty of a mortal child,

And by her radiant youth delighted,

He is not fooled, but warily knoweth

His love shall never be requited.

And thus the wise Immortal doeth. –

'Tis his study and delight

To bless that creature day and night;

From all evils to defend her;

In her lap to pour all splendor;

To ransack earth for riches rare,

And fetch her stars to deck her hair:

He mixes music with her thoughts,

And saddens her with heavenly doubts:

All grace, all good his great heart knows,

Profuse in love, the king bestows:

Saying, 'Hearken! Earth, Sea, Air!

This monument of my despair

Build I to the All-Good, All-Fair.

Not for a private good,

But I, from my beatitude,

Albeit scorned as none was scorned,

Adorn her as was none adorned.

I make this maiden an ensample

To Nature, through her kingdoms ample,

Whereby to model newer races,

Statelier forms, and fairer faces;

To carry man to new degrees

Of power, and of comeliness.

These presents be the hostages

Which I pawn for my release.

See to thyself, O Universe!

Thou art better, and not worse.'–

And the god, having given all,

Is freed forever from his thrall.

## THE VISIT

Askest, 'How long thou shalt stay,'

Devastator of the day?

Know, each substance, and relation,

Thorough nature's operation,

Hath its unit, bound, and metre;

And every new compound

Is some product and repeater, –

Product of the early found.

But the unit of the visit,

The encounter of the wise, –

Say, what other metre is it

Than the meeting of the eyes?

Nature poureth into nature

Through the channels of that feature.

Riding on the ray of sight,

More fleet than waves or whirlwinds go,

Or for service, or delight,

Hearts to hearts their meaning show,

Sum their long experience,

And import intelligence.

Single look has drained the breast;

Single moment years confessed.

The duration of a glance

Is the term of convenance,

And, though thy rede be church or state,

Frugal multiples of that.

Speeding Saturn cannot halt;

Linger, – thou shalt rue the fault;

If Love his moment overstay,

Hatred's swift repulsions play.

## URIEL

It fell in the ancient periods,

Which the brooding soul surveys,

Or ever the wild Time coined itself

Into calendar months and days.

This was the lapse of Uriel,

Which in Paradise befell.

Once, among the Pleiads walking,

SAID overheard the young gods talking;

And the treason, too long pent,

To his ears was evident.

The young deities discussed

Laws of form, and metre just,

Orb, quintessence, and sunbeams,

What subsisteth, and what seems.

One, with low tones that decide,

And doubt and reverend use defied,

With a look that solved the sphere,

And stirred the devils everywhere,

Gave his sentiment divine

Against the being of a line.

'Line in nature is not found;

Unit and universe are round;

In vain produced, all rays return;

Evil will bless, and ice will burn.'

As Uriel spoke with piercing eye,

A shudder ran around the sky;

The stern old war-gods shook their heads;

The seraphs frowned from myrtle-beds;

Seemed to the holy festival

The rash word boded ill to all;

The balance-beam of Fate was bent;

The bounds of good and ill were rent;

Strong Hades could not keep his own,

But all slid to confusion.

A sad self-knowledge, withering, fell

On the beauty of Uriel;

In heaven once eminent, the god

Withdrew, that hour, into his cloud;

Whether doomed to long gyration

In the sea of generation,

Or by knowledge grown too bright

To hit the nerve of feebler sight.

Straightway, a forgetting wind

Stole over the celestial kind,

And their lips the secret kept,

If in ashes the fire-seed slept.

But now and then, truth-speaking things

Shamed the angels' veiling wings;

And, shrilling from the solar course,

Or from fruit of chemic force,

Procession of a soul in matter,

Or the speeding change of water,

Or out of the good of evil born,

Came Uriel's voice of cherub scorn,

And a blush tinged the upper sky,

And the gods shook, they knew not why.

## THE WORLD-SOUL

Thanks to the morning light,

Thanks to the foaming sea,

To the uplands of New Hampshire,

To the green-haired forest free;

Thanks to each man of courage,

To the maids of holy mind;

To the boy with his games undaunted,

Who never looks behind.

Cities of proud hotels,

Houses of rich and great,

Vice nestles in your chambers,

Beneath your roofs of slate.

It cannot conquer folly,

Time-and-space-conquering steam;

And the light-outspeeding telegraph

Bears nothing on its beam.

The politics are base;

The letters do not cheer;

And 'tis far in the deeps of history,

The voice that speaketh clear.

Trade and the streets ensnare us,

Our bodies are weak and worn;

We plot and corrupt each other,

And we despoil the unborn.

Yet there in the parlor sits

Some figure of noble guise, –

Our angel, in a stranger's form,

Or woman's pleading eyes;

Or only a flashing sunbeam

In at the window-pane;

Or Music pours on mortals

Its beautiful disdain.

The inevitable morning

Finds them who in cellars be;

And be sure the all-loving Nature

Will smile in a factory.

Yon ridge of purple landscape,

Yon sky between the walls,

Hold all the hidden wonders,

In scanty intervals.

Alas! the Sprite that haunts us

Deceives our rash desire;

It whispers of the glorious gods,

And leaves us in the mire.

We cannot learn the cipher

That's writ upon our cell;

Stars help us by a mystery

Which we could never spell.

If but one hero knew it,

The world would blush in flame;

The sage, till he hit the secret,

Would hang his head for shame.

But our brothers have not read it,

Not one has found the key;

And henceforth we are comforted, –

We are but such as they.

Still, still the secret presses,

The nearing clouds draw down;

The crimson morning flames into

The fopperies of the town.

Within, without the idle earth,

Stars weave eternal rings;

The sun himself shines heartily,

And shares the joy he brings.

And what if Trade sow cities

Like shells along the shore,

And thatch with towns the prairie broad,

With railways ironed o'er? –

They are but sailing foam-bells

Along Thought's causing stream,

And take their shape and sun-color

From him that sends the dream.

For Destiny does not like

To yield to men the helm;

And shoots his thought, by hidden nerves,

Throughout the solid realm.

The patient Dæmon sits,

With roses and a shroud;

He has his way, and deals his gifts, –

But ours is not allowed.

He is no churl nor trifler,

And his viceroy is none, –

Love-without-weakness, –

Of Genius sire and son.

And his will is not thwarted;

The seeds of land and sea

Are the atoms of his body bright,

And his behest obey.

He serveth the servant,

The brave he loves amain;

He kills the cripple and the sick,

And straight begins again.

For gods delight in gods,

And thrust the weak aside;

To him who scorns their charities,

Their arms fly open wide.

When the old world is sterile,

And the ages are effete,

He will from wrecks and sediment

The fairer world complete.

He forbids to despair;

His cheeks mantle with mirth;

And the unimagined good of men

Is yeaning at the birth.

Spring still makes spring in the mind,

When sixty years are told;

Love wakes anew this throbbing heart,

And we are never old.

Over the winter glaciers,

I see the summer glow,

And, through the wild-piled snowdrift,

The warm rosebuds below.

# From  
 _MAY-DAY AND  
OTHER PIECES (1867)_

## BRAHMA

If the red slayer think he slays,

Or if the slain think he is slain,

They know not well the subtle ways

I keep, and pass, and turn again.

Far or forgot to me is near;

Shadow and sunlight are the same;

The vanished gods to me appear;

And one to me are shame and fame.

They reckon ill who leave me out;

When me they fly, I am the wings;

I am the doubter and the doubt,

And I the hymn the Brahmin sings.

The strong gods pine for my abode,

And pine in vain the sacred Seven;

But thou, meek lover of the good!

Find me, and turn thy back on heaven.

## NEMESIS

Already blushes in thy cheek

The bosom-thought which thou must speak;

The bird, how far it haply roam

By cloud or isle, is flying home;

The maiden fears, and fearing runs

Into the charmed snare she shuns;

And every man, in love or pride,

Of his fate is never wide.

Will a woman's fan the ocean smooth?

Or prayers the stony Parcæ sooth,

Or coax the thunder from its mark?

Or tapers light the chaos dark?

In spite of Virtue and the Muse,

Nemesis will have her dues,

And all our struggles and our toils

Tighter wind the giant coils.

## FATE

Deep in the man sits fast his fate

To mould his fortunes mean or great:

Unknown to Cromwell as to me

Was Cromwell's measure or degree;

Unknown to him, as to his horse,

If he than his groom be better or worse.

He works, plots, fights, in rude affairs,

With squires, lords, kings, his craft compares,

Till late he learned, through doubt and fear,

Broad England harbored not his peer:

Obeying Time, the last to own

The Genius from its cloudy throne.

For the prevision is allied

Unto the thing so signified;

Or say, the foresight that awaits

Is the same Genius that creates.

## FREEDOM

Once I wished I might rehearse

Freedom's pæan in my verse,

That the slave who caught the strain

Should throb until he snapped his chain.

But the Spirit said, 'Not so;

Speak it not, or speak it low;

Name not lightly to be said,

Gift too precious to be prayed,

Passion not to be expressed

But by heaving of the breast:

Yet, – wouldst thou the mountain find

Where this deity is shrined,

Who gives to seas and sunset skies

Their unspent beauty of surprise,

And, when it lists him, waken can

Brute or savage into man;

Or, if in thy heart he shine,

Blends the starry fates with thine,

Draws angels nigh to dwell with thee,

And makes thy thoughts archangels be;

Freedom's secret wilt thou know? –

Counsel not with flesh and blood;

Loiter not for cloak or food;

Right thou feelest, rush to do.'

## ODE SUNG IN THE TOWN HALL  
 _Concord, July 4, 1857_

O tenderly the haughty day

Fills his blue urn with fire;

One morn is in the mighty heaven,

And one in our desire.

The cannon booms from town to town,

Our pulses are not less,

The joy-bells chime their tidings down,

Which children's voices bless.

For He that flung the broad blue fold

O'er-mantling land and sea,

One third part of the sky unrolled

For the banner of the free.

The men are ripe of Saxon kind

To build an equal state, –

To take the statute from the mind,

And make of duty fate.

United States! the ages plead, –

Present and Past in under-song, –

Go put your creed into your deed,

Nor speak with double tongue.

For sea and land don't understand,

Nor skies without a frown

See rights for which the one hand fights

By the other cloven down.

Be just at home; then write your scroll

Of honor o'er the sea,

And bid the broad Atlantic roll,

A ferry of the free.

And, henceforth, there shall be no chain,

Save underneath the sea

The wires shall murmur through the main

Sweet songs of LIBERTY.

The conscious stars accord above,

The waters wild below,

And under, through the cable wove,

Her fiery errands go.

For He that worketh high and wise,

Nor pauses in his plan,

Will take the sun out of the skies

Ere freedom out of man.

## BOSTON HYMN  
 _Read in Music Hall, January 1, 1863_

The word of the Lord by night

To the watching Pilgrims came,

As they sat by the seaside,

And filled their hearts with flame.

God said, I am tired of kings,

I suffer them no more;

Up to my ear the morning brings

The outrage of the poor.

Think ye I made this ball

A field of havoc and war,

Where tyrants great and tyrants small

Might harry the weak and poor?

My angel, – his name is Freedom, –

Choose him to be your king;

He shall cut pathways east and west,

And fend you with his wing.

Lo! I uncover the land

Which I hid of old time in the West,

As the sculptor uncovers the statue

When he has wrought his best;

I show Columbia, of the rocks

Which dip their foot in the seas,

And soar to the air-borne flocks

Of clouds, and the boreal fleece.

I will divide my goods;

Call in the wretch and slave:

None shall rule but the humble,

And none but Toil shall have.

I will have never a noble,

No lineage counted great;

Fishers and choppers and ploughmen

Shall constitute a state.

Go, cut down trees in the forest,

And trim the straightest boughs;

Cut down trees in the forest,

And build me a wooden house.

Call the people together,

The young men and the sires,

The digger in the harvest field,

Hireling, and him that hires;

And here in a pine state-house

They shall choose men to rule

In every needful faculty,

In church, and state, and school.

Lo, now! if these poor men

Can govern the land and sea,

And make just laws below the sun,

As planets faithful be.

And ye shall succor men;

'Tis nobleness to serve;

Help them who cannot help again:

Beware from right to swerve.

I break your bonds and masterships,

And I unchain the slave:

Free be his heart and hand henceforth

As wind and wandering wave.

I cause from every creature

His proper good to flow:

As much as he is and doeth,

So much he shall bestow.

But, laying hands on another

To coin his labor and sweat,

He goes in pawn to his victim

For eternal years in debt.

To-day unbind the captive,

So only are ye unbound;

Lift up a people from the dust,

Trump of their rescue, sound!

Pay ransom to the owner,

And fill the bag to the brim.

Who is the owner? The slave is owner,

And ever was. Pay him.

O North! give him beauty for rags,

And honor, O South! for his shame;

Nevada! coin thy golden crags

With Freedom's image and name.

Up! and the dusky race

That sat in darkness long, –

Be swift their feet as antelopes,

And as behemoth strong.

Come, East and West and North,

By races, as snow-flakes,

And carry my purpose forth,

Which neither halts nor shakes.

My will fulfilled shall be,

For, in daylight or in dark,

My thunderbolt has eyes to see

His way home to the mark.

## LOVE AND THOUGHT

Two well-assorted travellers use

The highway, Eros and the Muse.

From the twins is nothing hidden,

To the pair is naught forbidden;

Hand in hand the comrades go

Every nook of nature through:

Each for other they were born,

Each can other best adorn;

They know one only mortal grief

Past all balsam or relief,

When, by false companions crossed,

The pilgrims have each other lost.

## LOVER'S PETITION

Good Heart, that ownest all!

I ask a modest boon and small:

Not of lands and towns the gift, –

Too large a load for me to lift, –

But for one proper creature,

Which geographic eye,

Sweeping the map of Western earth,

Or the Atlantic coast, from Maine

To Powhatan's domain,

Could not descry.

Is 't much to ask in all thy huge creation,

So trivial a part, –

A solitary heart?

Yet count me not of spirit mean,

Or mine a mean demand,

For 't is the concentration

And worth of all the land,

The sister of the sea,

The daughter of the strand,

Composed of air and light,

And of the swart earth-might.

So little to thy poet's prayer

Thy large bounty well can spare.

And yet I think, if she were gone,

The world were better left alone.

## UNA

Roving, roving, as it seems,

Una lights my clouded dreams;

Still for journeys she is dressed;

We wander far by east and west.

In the homestead, homely thought;

At my work I ramble not;

If from home chance draw me wide,

Half-seen Una sits beside.

In my house and garden-plot,

Though beloved, I miss her not;

But one I seek in foreign places,

One face explore in foreign faces.

At home a deeper thought may light

The inward sky with chrysolite,

And I greet from far the ray,

Aurora of a dearer day.

But if upon the seas I sail,

Or trundle on the glowing rail,

I am but a thought of hers,

Loveliest of travellers.

So the gentle poet's name

To foreign parts is blown by fame;

Seek him in his native town,

He is hidden and unknown.

## LETTERS

Every day brings a ship,

Every ship brings a word;

Well for those who have no fear,

Looking seaward well assured

That the word the vessel brings

Is the word they wish to hear.

## RUBIES

They brought me rubies from the mine,

And held them to the sun;

I said, they are drops of frozen wine

From Eden's vats that run.

I looked again, – I thought them hearts

Of friends to friends unknown;

Tides that should warm each neighboring life

Are locked in sparkling stone.

But fire to thaw that ruddy snow,

To break enchanted ice,

And give love's scarlet tides to flow, –

When shall that sun arise?

## MERLIN'S SONG

Of Merlin wise I learned a song, –

Sing it low, or sing it loud,

It is mightier than the strong,

And punishes the proud.

I sing it to the surging crowd, –

Good men it will calm and cheer,

Bad men it will chain and cage.

In the heart of the music peals a strain

Which only angels hear;

Whether it waken joy or rage,

Hushed myriads hark in vain,

Yet they who hear it shed their age,

And take their youth again.

## THE TEST  
 _(Musa loquitur)_

I hung my verses in the wind,

Time and tide their faults may find.

All were winnowed through and through,

Five lines lasted sound and true;

Five were smelted in a pot

Than the South more fierce and hot;

These the siroc could not melt,

Fire their fiercer flaming felt,

And the meaning was more white

Than July's meridian light.

Sunshine cannot bleach the snow,

Nor time unmake what poets know.

Have you eyes to find the five

Which five hundred did survive?

## NATURE

I

Winters know

Easily to shed the snow,

And the untaught Spring is wise

In cowslips and anemonies.

Nature, hating art and pains,

Baulks and baffles plotting brains;

Casualty and Surprise

Are the apples of her eyes;

But she dearly loves the poor,

And, by marvel of her own,

Strikes the loud pretender down.

For Nature listens in the rose,

And hearkens in the berry's bell,

To help her friends, to plague her foes,

And like wise God she judges well.

Yet doth much her love excel

To the souls that never fell,

To swains that live in happiness,

And do well because they please,

Who walk in ways that are unfamed,

And feats achieve before they're named.

## NATURE

II

She is gamesome and good,

But of mutable mood, –

No dreary repeater now and again,

She will be all things to all men.

She who is old, but nowise feeble,

Pours her power into the people,

Merry and manifold without bar,

Makes and moulds them what they are,

And what they call their city way

Is not their way, but hers,

And what they say they made to-day,

They learned of the oaks and firs.

She spawneth men as mallows fresh,

Hero and maiden, flesh of her flesh;

She drugs her water and her wheat

With the flavors she finds meet,

And gives them what to drink and eat;

And having thus their bread and growth,

They do her bidding, nothing loath.

What's most theirs is not their own,

But borrowed in atoms from iron and stone,

And in their vaunted works of Art

The master-stroke is still her part.

## THE ROMANY GIRL

The sun goes down, and with him takes

The coarseness of my poor attire;

The fair moon mounts, and aye the flame

Of Gypsy beauty blazes higher.

Pale Northern girls! you scorn our race;

You captives of your air-tight halls,

Wear out in-doors your sickly days,

But leave us the horizon walls.

And if I take you, dames, to task,

And say it frankly without guile,

Then you are Gypsies in a mask,

And I the lady all the while.

If, on the heath, below the moon,

I court and play with paler blood,

Me false to mine dare whisper none, –

One sallow horseman knows me good.

Go, keep your cheek's rose from the rain,

For teeth and hair with shopmen deal;

My swarthy tint is in the grain,

The rocks and forest know it real.

The wild air bloweth in our lungs,

The keen stars twinkle in our eyes,

The birds gave us our wily tongues,

The panther in our dances flies.

You doubt we read the stars on high,

Nathless we read your fortunes true;

The stars may hide in the upper sky,

But without glass we fathom you.

## MY GARDEN

If I could put my woods in song,

And tell what's there enjoyed,

All men would to my gardens throng,

And leave the cities void.

In my plot no tulips blow, –

Snow-loving pines and oaks instead;

And rank the savage maples grow

From spring's faint flush to autumn red.

My garden is a forest ledge

Which older forests bound;

The banks slope down to the blue lake-edge,

Then plunge to depths profound.

Here once the Deluge ploughed,

Laid the terraces, one by one;

Ebbing later whence it flowed,

They bleach and dry in the sun.

The sowers made haste to depart, –

The wind and the birds which sowed it;

Not for fame, nor by rules of art,

Planted these, and tempests flowed it.

Waters that wash my garden side

Play not in Nature's lawful web,

They heed not moon or solar tide, –

Five years elapse from flood to ebb.

Hither hasted, in old time, Jove,

And every god, – none did refuse;

And be sure at last came Love,

And after Love, the Muse.

Keen ears can catch a syllable,

As if one spake to another,

In the hemlocks tall, untamable,

And what the whispering grasses smother.

Æolian harps in the pine

Ring with the song of the Fates;

Infant Bacchus in the vine, –

Far distant yet his chorus waits.

Canst thou copy in verse one chime

Of the wood-bell's peal and cry,

Write in a book the morning's prime,

Or match with words that tender sky?

Wonderful verse of the gods,

Of one import, of varied tone;

They chant the bliss of their abodes

To man imprisoned in his own.

Ever the words of the gods resound;

But the porches of man's ear

Seldom in this low life's round

Are unsealed, that he may hear.

Wandering voices in the air,

And murmurs in the wold,

Speak what I cannot declare,

Yet cannot all withhold.

When the shadow fell on the lake,

The whirlwind in ripples wrote

Air-bells of fortune that shine and break,

And omens above thought.

But the meanings cleave to the lake,

Cannot be carried in book or urn;

Go thy ways now, come later back,

On waves and hedges still they burn.

These the fates of men forecast,

Of better men than live to-day;

If who can read them comes at last,

He will spell in the sculpture, 'Stay!'

## THE TITMOUSE

You shall not be overbold

When you deal with arctic cold,

As late I found my lukewarm blood

Chilled wading in the snow-choked wood.

How should I fight? my foeman fine

Has million arms to one of mine:

East, west, for aid I looked in vain,

East, west, north, south, are his domain.

Miles off, three dangerous miles, is home;

Must borrow his winds who there would come.

Up and away for life! be fleet! –

The frost-king ties my fumbling feet,

Sings in my ears, my hands are stones,

Curdles the blood to the marble bones,

Tugs at the heart-strings, numbs the sense,

And hems in life with narrowing fence.

Well, in this broad bed lie and sleep,

The punctual stars will vigil keep,

Embalmed by purifying cold,

The winds shall sing their dead-march old,

The snow is no ignoble shroud,

The moon thy mourner, and the cloud.

Softly, – but this way fate was pointing,

'T was coming fast to such anointing,

When piped a tiny voice hard by,

Gay and polite, a cheerful cry,

_Chic-chicadeedee!_ saucy note

Out of sound heart and merry throat,

As if it said, 'Good day, good sir!

Fine afternoon, old passenger!

Happy to meet you in these places,

Where January brings few faces.'

This poet, though he live apart,

Moved by his hospitable heart,

Sped, when I passed his sylvan fort,

To do the honors of his court,

As fits a feathered lord of land;

Flew near, with soft wing grazed my hand,

Hopped on the bough, then, darting low,

Prints his small impress on the snow,

Shows feats of his gymnastic play,

Head downward, clinging to the spray.

Here was this atom in full breath,

Hurling defiance at vast death;

This scrap of valor just for play

Fronts the north-wind in waistcoat gray,

As if to shame my weak behavior;

I greeted loud my little saviour,

'You pet! what dost here? and what for?

In these woods, thy small Labrador,

At this pinch, wee San Salvador!

What fire burns in that little chest

So frolic, stout, and self-possest?

Henceforth I wear no stripe but thine;

Ashes and jet all hues outshine.

Why are not diamonds black and gray,

To ape thy dare-devil array?

And I affirm, the spacious North

Exists to draw thy virtue forth.

I think no virtue goes with size;

The reason of all cowardice

Is, that men are overgrown,

And, to be valiant, must come down

To the titmouse dimension.'

'Tis good-will makes intelligence,

And I began to catch the sense

Of my bird's song: 'Live out of doors

In the great woods, on prairie floors.

I dine in the sun; when he sinks in the sea,

I too have a hole in a hollow tree;

And I like less when Summer beats

With stifling beams on these retreats,

Than noontide twilights which snow makes

With tempest of the blinding flakes.

For well the soul, if stout within,

Can arm impregnably the skin;

And polar frost my frame defied,

Made of the air that blows outside.'

With glad remembrance of my debt,

I homeward turn; farewell, my pet!

When here again thy pilgrim comes,

He shall bring store of seeds and crumbs.

Doubt not, so long as earth has bread,

Thou first and foremost shalt be fed;

The Providence that is most large

Takes hearts like thine in special charge,

Helps who for their own need are strong,

And the sky doats on cheerful song.

Henceforth I prize thy wiry chant

O'er all that mass and minster vaunt;

For men mis-hear thy call in spring,

As 't would accost some frivolous wing,

Crying out of the hazel copse, _Phe-be!_

And, in winter, _Chic-a-dee-dee!_

I think old Cæsar must have heard

In northern Gaul my dauntless bird,

And, echoed in some frosty wold,

Borrowed thy battle-numbers bold.

And I will write our annals new,

And thank thee for a better clew,

I, who dreamed not when I came here

To find the antidote of fear,

Now hear thee say in Roman key,

_Pæan! Veni, vidi, vici_.

## DAYS

Daughters of Time, the hypocritic Days,

Muffled and dumb like barefoot dervishes,

And marching single in an endless file,

Bring diadems and fagots in their hands.

To each they offer gifts after his will,

Bread, kingdoms, stars, and sky that holds them all.

I, in my pleached garden, watched the pomp,

Forgot my morning wishes, hastily

Took a few herbs and apples, and the Day

Turned and departed silent. I, too late,

Under her solemn fillet saw the scorn.

## SEA–SHORE

I heard or seemed to hear the chiding Sea

Say, Pilgrim, why so late and slow to come?

Am I not always here, thy summer home?

Is not my voice thy music, morn and eve?

My breath thy healthful climate in the heats,

My touch thy antidote, my bay thy bath?

Was ever building like my terraces?

Was ever couch magnificent as mine?

Lie on the warm rock-ledges, and there learn

A little hut suffices like a town.

I make your sculptured architecture vain,

Vain beside mine. I drive my wedges home,

And carve the coastwise mountain into caves.

Lo! here is Rome, and Nineveh, and Thebes,

Karnak, and Pyramid, and Giant's Stairs,

Half piled or prostrate; and my newest slab

Older than all thy race.

Behold the Sea,

The opaline, the plentiful and strong,

Yet beautiful as is the rose in June,

Fresh as the trickling rainbow of July;

Sea full of food, the nourisher of kinds,

Purger of earth, and medicine of men;

Creating a sweet climate by my breath,

Washing out harms and griefs from memory,

And, in my mathematic ebb and flow,

Giving a hint of that which changes not.

Rich are the sea-gods: – who gives gifts but they?

They grope the sea for pearls, but more than pearls:

They pluck Force thence, and give it to the wise.

For every wave is wealth to Dædalus,

Wealth to the cunning artist who can work

This matchless strength. Where shall he find, O waves!

A load your Atlas shoulders cannot lift?

I with my hammer pounding evermore

The rocky coast, smite Andes into dust,

Strewing my bed, and, in another age,

Rebuild a continent of better men.

Then I unbar the doors: my paths lead out

The exodus of nations: I disperse

Men to all shores that front the hoary main.

I too have arts and sorceries;

Illusion dwells forever with the wave.

I know what spells are laid. Leave me to deal

With credulous and imaginative man;

For, though he scoop my water in his palm,

A few rods off he deems it gems and clouds.

Planting strange fruits and sunshine on the shore,

I make some coast alluring, some lone isle,

To distant men, who must go there, or die.

## TWO RIVERS

Thy summer voice, Musketaquit,

Repeats the music of the rain;

But sweeter rivers pulsing flit

Through thee, as thou through Concord Plain.

Thou in thy narrow banks art pent:

The stream I love unbounded goes

Through flood and sea and firmament;

Through light, through life, it forward flows.

I see the inundation sweet,

I hear the spending of the stream

Through years, through men, through nature fleet,

Through passion, thought, through power and dream.

Musketaquit, a goblin strong,

Of shard and flint makes jewels gay;

They lose their grief who hear his song,

And where he winds is the day of day.

So forth and brighter fares my stream, –

Who drink it shall not thirst again;

No darkness stains its equal gleam,

And ages drop in it like rain.

## WALDEINSAMKEIT

I do not count the hours I spend

In wandering by the sea;

The forest is my loyal friend,

Like God it useth me.

In plains that room for shadows make

Of skirting hills to lie,

Bound in by streams which give and take

Their colors from the sky;

Or on the mountain-crest sublime,

Or down the oaken glade,

O what have I to do with time?

For this the day was made.

Cities of mortals woe-begone

Fantastic care derides,

But in the serious landscape lone

Stern benefit abides.

Sheen will tarnish, honey cloy,

And merry is only a mask of sad,

But, sober on a fund of joy,

The woods at heart are glad.

There the great Planter plants

Of fruitful worlds the grain,

And with a million spells enchants

The souls that walk in pain.

Still on the seeds of all he made

The rose of beauty burns;

Through times that wear, and forms that fade,

Immortal youth returns.

The black ducks mounting from the lake,

The pigeon in the pines,

The bittern's boom, a desert make

Which no false art refines.

Down in yon watery nook,

Where bearded mists divide,

The gray old gods whom Chaos knew,

The sires of Nature, hide.

Aloft, in secret veins of air,

Blows the sweet breath of song,

O, few to scale those uplands dare,

Though they to all belong!

See thou bring not to field or stone

The fancies found in books;

Leave authors' eyes, and fetch your own,

To brave the landscape's looks.

And if, amid this dear delight,

My thoughts did home rebound,

I well might reckon it a slight

To the high cheer I found.

Oblivion here thy wisdom is,

Thy thrift, the sleep of cares;

For a proud idleness like this

Crowns all thy mean affairs.

## TERMINUS

It is time to be old,

To take in sail: –

The god of bounds,

Who sets to seas a shore,

Came to me in his fatal rounds,

And said: 'No more!

No farther spread

Thy broad ambitious branches, and thy root.

Fancy departs: no more invent,

Contract thy firmament

To compass of a tent.

There's not enough for this and that,

Make thy option which of two;

Economize the falling river,

Not the less revere the Giver,

Leave the many and hold the few.

Timely wise accept the terms,

Soften the fall with wary foot;

A little while

Still plan and smile,

And, fault of novel germs,

Mature the unfallen fruit.

Curse, if thou wilt, thy sires,

Bad husbands of their fires,

Who, when they gave thee breath,

Failed to bequeath

The needful sinew stark as once,

The Baresark marrow to thy bones,

But left a legacy of ebbing veins,

Inconstant heat and nerveless reins, –

Amid the Muses, left thee deaf and dumb,

Amid the gladiators, halt and numb.'

As the bird trims her to the gale,

I trim myself to the storm of time,

I man the rudder, reef the sail,

Obey the voice at eve obeyed at prime:

'Lowly faithful, banish fear,

Right onward drive unharmed;

The port, well worth the cruise, is near,

And every wave is charmed.'

## THE PAST

The debt is paid,

The verdict said,

The Furies laid,

The plague is stayed,

All fortunes made;

Turn the key and bolt the door,

Sweet is death forevermore.

Nor haughty hope, nor swart chagrin,

Nor murdering hate, can enter in.

All is now secure and fast;

Not the gods can shake the Past;

Flies-to the adamantine door

Bolted down forevermore.

None can re-enter there, –

No thief so politic,

No Satan with a royal trick

Steal in by window, chink, or hole,

To bind or unbind, add what lacked,

Insert a leaf, or forge a name,

New-face or finish what is packed,

Alter or mend eternal Fact.

## EXPERIENCE

The lords of life, the lords of life, –

I saw them pass,

In their own guise,

Like and unlike,

Portly and grim, –

Use and Surprise,

Surface and Dream,

Succession swift and spectral Wrong,

Temperament without a tongue,

And the inventor of the game

Omnipresent without name; –

Some to see, some to be guessed,

They marched from east to west:

Little man, least of all,

Among the legs of his guardians tall,

Walked about with puzzled look.

Him by the hand dear Nature took,

Dearest Nature, strong and kind,

Whispered, 'Darling, never mind!

To-morrow they will wear another face,

The founder thou; these are thy race!'

## COMPENSATION

I

The wings of Time are black and white,

Pied with morning and with night.

Mountain tall and ocean deep

Trembling balance duly keep.

In changing moon and tidal wave

Glows the feud of Want and Have.

Gauge of more and less through space,

Electric star or pencil plays,

The lonely Earth amid the balls

That hurry through the eternal halls,

A makeweight flying to the void,

Supplemental asteroid,

Or compensatory spark,

Shoots across the neutral Dark.

II

Man's the elm, and Wealth the vine;

Stanch and strong the tendrils twine:

Though the frail ringlets thee deceive,

None from its stock that vine can reave.

Fear not, then, thou child infirm,

There's no god dare wrong a worm;

Laurel crowns cleave to deserts,

And power to him who power exerts.

Hast not thy share? On winged feet,

Lo! it rushes thee to meet;

And all that Nature made thy own,

Floating in air or pent in stone,

Will rive the hills and swim the sea,

And, like thy shadow, follow thee.

## CULTURE

Can rules or tutors educate

The semigod whom we await?

He must be musical,

Tremulous, impressional,

Alive to gentle influence

Of landscape and of sky,

And tender to the spirit-touch

Of man's or maiden's eye:

But, to his native centre fast,

Shall into Future fuse the Past,

And the world's flowing fates in his own mould recast.

## POLITICS

Gold and iron are good

To buy iron and gold;

All earth's fleece and food

For their like are sold.

Hinted Merlin wise,

Proved Napoleon great,

Nor kind nor coinage buys

Aught above its rate.

Fear, Craft, and Avarice

Cannot rear a State.

Out of dust to build

What is more than dust, –

Walls Amphion piled

Phœbus stablish must.

When the Muses nine

With the Virtues meet,

Find to their design

An Atlantic seat,

By green orchard boughs

Fended from the heat,

Where the statesman ploughs

Furrow for the wheat, –

When the Church is social worth,

When the state-house is the hearth,

Then the perfect State is come,

The republican at home.

## HEROISM

Ruby wine is drunk by knaves,

Sugar spends to fatten slaves,

Rose and vine-leaf deck buffoons;

Thunder-clouds are Jove's festoons,

Drooping oft in wreaths of dread,

Lightning-knotted round his head;

The hero is not fed on sweets,

Daily his own heart he eats;

Chambers of the great are jails,

And head-winds right for royal sails.

## CHARACTER

The sun set, but set not his hope:

Stars rose; his faith was earlier up:

Fixed on the enormous galaxy,

Deeper and older seemed his eye;

And matched his sufferance sublime

The taciturnity of time.

He spoke, and words more soft than rain

Brought the Age of Gold again:

His action won such reverence sweet

As hid all measure of the feat.

## FRIENDSHIP

A ruddy drop of manly blood

The surging sea outweighs,

The world uncertain comes and goes,

The lover rooted stays.

I fancied he was fled, –

And, after many a year,

Glowed unexhausted kindliness,

Like daily sunrise there.

My careful heart was free again,

O friend, my bosom said,

Through thee alone the sky is arched,

Through thee the rose is red;

All things through thee take nobler form,

And look beyond the earth,

The mill-round of our fate appears

A sun-path in thy worth.

Me too thy nobleness has taught

To master my despair;

The fountains of my hidden life

Are through thy friendship fair.

## BEAUTY

Was never form and never face

So sweet to SEYD as only grace

Which did not slumber like a stone,

But hovered gleaming and was gone.

Beauty chased he everywhere,

In flame, in storm, in clouds of air.

He smote the lake to feed his eye

With the beryl beam of the broken wave;

He flung in pebbles well to hear

The moment's music which they gave.

Oft pealed for him a lofty tone

From nodding pole and belting zone.

He heard a voice none else could hear

From centred and from errant sphere.

The quaking earth did quake in rhyme,

Seas ebbed and flowed in epic chime.

In dens of passion, and pits of woe,

He saw strong Eros struggling through,

To sun the dark and solve the curse,

And beam to the bounds of the universe.

While thus to love he gave his days

In loyal worship, scorning praise,

How spread their lures for him in vain

Thieving Ambition and paltering Gain!

He thought it happier to be dead,

To die for Beauty, than live for bread.

## MANNERS

Grace, Beauty, and Caprice

Build this golden portal;

Graceful women, chosen men,

Dazzle every mortal.

Their sweet and lofty countenance

His enchanted food;

He need not go to them, their forms

Beset his solitude.

He looketh seldom in their face,

His eyes explore the ground, –

The green grass is a looking-glass

Whereon their traits are found.

Little and less he says to them,

So dances his heart in his breast;

Their tranquil mien bereaveth him

Of wit, of words, of rest.

Too weak to win, too fond to shun

The tyrants of his doom,

The much deceived Endymion

Slips behind a tomb.

## ART

Give to barrows, trays, and pans

Grace and glimmer of romance;

Bring the moonlight into noon

Hid in gleaming piles of stone;

On the city's paved street

Plant gardens lined with lilacs sweet;

Let spouting fountains cool the air,

Singing in the sun-baked square;

Let statue, picture, park, and hall,

Ballad, flag, and festival,

The past restore, the day adorn,

And make to-morrow a new morn.

So shall the drudge in dusty frock

Spy behind the city clock

Retinues of airy kings,

Skirts of angels, starry wings,

His fathers shining in bright fables,

His children fed at heavenly tables.

'Tis the privilege of Art

Thus to play its cheerful part,

Man on earth to acclimate,

And bend the exile to his fate,

And, moulded of one element

With the days and firmament,

Teach him on these as stairs to climb,

And live on even terms with Time;

Whilst upper life the slender rill

Of human sense doth overfill.

## SPIRITUAL LAWS

The living Heaven thy prayers respect,

House at once and architect,

Quarrying man's rejected hours,

Builds therewith eternal towers;

Sole and self-commanded works,

Fears not undermining days,

Grows by decays,

And, by the famous might that lurks

In reaction and recoil,

Makes flame to freeze, and ice to boil;

Forging, through swart arms of Offence,

The silver seat of Innocence.

## UNITY

Space is ample, east and west,

But two cannot go abreast,

Cannot travel in it two:

Yonder masterful cuckoo

Crowds every egg out of the nest,

Quick or dead, except its own;

A spell is laid on sod and stone,

Night and Day were tampered with,

Every quality and pith

Surcharged and sultry with a power

That works its will on age and hour.

## WORSHIP

This is he, who, felled by foes,

Sprung harmless up, refreshed by blows:

He to captivity was sold,

But him no prison-bars would hold:

Though they sealed him in a rock,

Mountain chains he can unlock:

Thrown to lions for their meat,

The crouching lion kissed his feet:

Bound to the stake, no flames appalled,

But arched o'er him an honoring vault.

This is he men miscall Fate,

Threading dark ways, arriving late,

But ever coming in time to crown

The truth, and hurl wrong-doers down.

He is the oldest, and best known,

More near than aught thou call'st thy own,

Yet, greeted in another's eyes,

Disconcerts with glad surprise.

This is Jove, who, deaf to prayers,

Floods with blessings unawares.

Draw, if thou canst, the mystic line

Severing rightly his from thine,

Which is human, which divine.

## QUATRAINS

### _S.H_.

With beams December planets dart

His cold eye truth and conduct scanned,

July was in his sunny heart,

October in his liberal hand.

### _A.H_.

High was her heart, and yet was well inclined,

Her manners made of bounty well refined;

Far capitals, and marble courts, her eye still seemed to see,

Minstrels, and kings, and high-born dames, and of the best that be.

### _'Suum Cuique'_

Wilt thou seal up the avenues of ill?

Pay every debt, as if God wrote the bill.

### _Hush!_

Every thought is public,

Every nook is wide;

Thy gossips spread each whisper,

And the gods from side to side.

### _Orator_

He who has no hands

Perforce must use his tongue;

Foxes are so cunning

Because they are not strong.

### _Artist_

Quit the hut, frequent the palace,

Reck not what the people say;

For still, where'er the trees grow biggest,

Huntsmen find the easiest way.

### _Poet_

Ever the Poet _from_ the land

Steers his bark, and trims his sail;

Right out to sea his courses stand,

New worlds to find in pinnace frail.

### _Poet_

To clothe the fiery thought

In simple words succeeds,

For still the craft of genius is

To mask a king in weeds.

### _Botanist_

Go thou to thy learned task,

I stay with the flowers of spring:

Do thou of the ages ask

What me the hours will bring.

### _Gardener_

True Bramin, in the morning meadows wet,

Expound the Vedas of the violet,

Or, hid in vines, peeping through many a loop,

See the plum redden, and the beurré stoop.

### _Forester_

He took the color of his vest

From rabbit's coat or grouse's breast;

For, as the wood-kinds lurk and hide,

So walks the woodman, unespied.

### _Northman_

The gale that wrecked you on the sand,

It helped my rowers to row;

The storm is my best galley hand,

And drives me where I go.

### _From Alcuin_

The sea is the road of the bold,

Frontier of the wheat-sown plains,

The pit wherein the streams are rolled,

And fountain of the rains.

### _Excelsior_

Over his head were the maple buds,

And over the tree was the moon,

And over the moon were the starry studs,

That drop from the angels' shoon.

### **_Borrowing_  
 _From the French_**

Some of your hurts you have cured,

And the sharpest you still have survived,

But what torments of grief you endured

From evils which never arrived!

### _Nature_

Boon Nature yields each day a brag which we now first behold,

And trains us on to slight the new, as if it were the old:

But blest is he, who, playing deep, yet haply asks not why,

Too busied with the crowded hour to fear to live or die.

### _Fate_

Her planted eye to-day controls,

Is in the morrow most at home,

And sternly calls to being souls

That curse her when they come.

### _Horoscope_

Ere he was born, the stars of fate

Plotted to make him rich and great:

When from the womb the babe was loosed,

The gate of gifts behind him closed.

### _Power_

Cast the bantling on the rocks,

Suckle him with the she-wolf's teat,

Wintered with the hawk and fox,

Power and speed be hands and feet.

### _Climacteric_

I am not wiser for my age,

Nor skilful by my grief;

Life loiters at the book's first page, –

Ah! could we turn the leaf.

### _Heri, Cras, Hodie_

Shines the last age, the next with hope is seen,

To-day slinks poorly off unmarked between:

Future or Past no richer secret folds,

O friendless Present! than thy bosom holds.

### _Memory_

Night-dreams trace on Memory's wall

Shadows of the thoughts of day,

And thy fortunes, as they fall,

The bias of the will betray.

### _Love_

Love on his errand bound to go

Can swim the flood, and wade through snow,

Where way is none, 't will creep and wind

And eat through Alps its home to find.

### _Sacrifice_

Though love repine, and reason chafe,

There came a voice without reply, –

' 'Tis man's perdition to be safe,

When for the truth he ought to die.'

### _Pericles_

Well and wisely said the Greek,

Be thou faithful, but not fond;

To the altar's foot thy fellow seek,

The Furies wait beyond.

### _Casella_

Test of the poet is knowledge of love,

For Eros is older than Saturn or Jove;

Never was poet, of late or of yore,

Who was not tremulous with love-lore.

### _Shakspeare_

I see all human wits

Are measured but a few,

Unmeasured still my Shakspeare sits,

Lone as the blessed Jew.

### _Hafiz_

Her passions the shy violet

From Hafiz never hides;

Love-longings of the raptured bird

The bird to him confides.

### _Nature in Leasts_

As sings the pine-tree in the wind,

So sings in the wind a sprig of the pine;

Her strength and soul has laughing France

Shed in each drop of wine.

### _'AΔAKPϒN NEMONTAI AIΩNA_

'A new commandment,' said the smiling Muse,

'I give my darling son, Thou shalt not preach'; –

Luther, Fox, Behmen, Swedenborg, grew pale,

And, on the instant, rosier clouds upbore

Hafiz and Shakspeare with their shining choirs.

# From  
 _SELECTED POEMS (1876)_

## THE NUN'S ASPIRATION

The yesterday doth never smile,

To-day goes drudging through the while,

Yet in the name of Godhead, I

The morrow front, and can defy;

Though I am weak, yet God, when prayed,

Cannot withhold his conquering aid.

Ah me! it was my childhood's thought,

If He should make my web a blot

On life's fair picture of delight,

My heart's content would find it right.

But O, these waves and leaves, –

When haply stoic Nature grieves, –

No human speech so beautiful

As their murmurs mine to lull.

On this altar God hath built

I lay my vanity and guilt;

Nor me can Hope or Passion urge

Hearing as now the lofty dirge

Which blasts of Northern mountains hymn,

Nature's funeral, high and dim, –

Sable pageantry of clouds,

Mourning summer laid in shrouds.

Many a day shall dawn and die,

Many an angel wander by,

And passing, light my sunken turf

Moist perhaps by ocean surf,

Forgotten amid splendid tombs,

Yet wreathed and hid by summer blooms.

On earth I dream; – I die to be:

Time! shake not thy bald head at me.

I challenge thee to hurry past,

Or for my turn to fly too fast.

Think me not numbed or halt with age,

Or cares that earth to earth engage,

Caught with love's cord of twisted beams,

Or mired by climate's gross extremes.

I tire of shams, I rush to Be,

I pass with yonder comet free, –

Pass with the comet into space

Which mocks thy æons to embrace;

Æons which tardily unfold

Realm beyond realm, – extent untold;

No early morn, no evening late, –

Realms self-upheld, disdaining Fate,

Whose shining sons, too great for fame,

Never heard thy weary name;

Nor lives the tragic bard to say

How drear the part I held in one,

How lame the other limped away.

## **HYMN**  
 _Sung at the Second Church, Boston, at the  
Ordination of Rev. Chandler Robbins_

We love the venerable house

Our fathers built to God; –

In heaven are kept their grateful vows,

Their dust endears the sod.

Here holy thoughts a light have shed

From many a radiant face,

And prayers of humble virtue made

The perfume of the place.

And anxious hearts have pondered here

The mystery of life,

And prayed the eternal Light to clear

Their doubts, and aid their strife.

From humble tenements around

Came up the pensive train,

And in the church a blessing found

That filled their homes again;

For faith and peace and mighty love

That from the Godhead flow,

Showed them the life of Heaven above

Springs from the life below.

They live with God; their homes are dust;

Yet here their children pray,

And in this fleeting lifetime trust

To find the narrow way.

On him who by the altar stands,

On him thy blessing fall,

Speak through his lips thy pure commands,

Thou heart that lovest all.

##  CUPIDO

The solid, solid universe

Is pervious to Love;

With bandaged eyes he never errs,

Around, below, above.

His blinding light

He flingeth white

On God's and Satan's brood,

And reconciles

By mystic wiles

The evil and the good.

## BOSTON  
 _Sicut patribus, sit Deus nobis_

_Read in Faneuil Hall, on December 16, 1873, on the Centennial Anniversary of the Destruction of the Tea in Boston Harbor_

The rocky nook with hill-tops three

Looked eastward from the farms,

And twice each day the flowing sea

Took Boston in its arms;

The men of yore were stout and poor,

And sailed for bread to every shore.

And where they went on trade intent

They did what freemen can,

Their dauntless ways did all men praise,

The merchant was a man.

The world was made for honest trade, –

To plant and eat be none afraid.

The waves that rocked them on the deep

To them their secret told;

Said the winds that sung the lads to sleep,

'Like us be free and bold!'

The honest waves refuse to slaves

The empire of the ocean caves.

Old Europe groans with palaces,

Has lords enough and more; –

We plant and build by foaming seas

A city of the poor; –

For day by day could Boston Bay

Their honest labor overpay.

We grant no dukedoms to the few,

We hold like rights and shall; –

Equal on Sunday in the pew,

On Monday in the mall.

For what avail the plough or sail,

Or land or life, if freedom fail?

The noble craftsman we promote,

Disown the knave and fool;

Each honest man shall have his vote,

Each child shall have his school.

A union then of honest men,

Or union nevermore again.

The wild rose and the barberry thorn

Hung out their summer pride

Where now on heated pavements worn

The feet of millions stride.

Fair rose the planted hills behind

The good town on the bay,

And where the western hills declined

The prairie stretched away.

What care though rival cities soar

Along the stormy coast,

Penn's town, New York, and Baltimore,

If Boston knew the most!

They laughed to know the world so wide;

The mountains said, 'Good day!

We greet you well, you Saxon men,

Up with your towns and stay!'

The world was made for honest trade, –

To plant and eat be none afraid.

'For you,' they said, 'no barriers be,

For you no sluggard rest;

Each street leads downward to the sea,

Or landward to the West.'

O happy town beside the sea,

Whose roads lead everywhere to all;

Than thine no deeper moat can be,

No stouter fence, no steeper wall!

Bad news from George on the English throne:

'You are thriving well,' said he;

'Now by these presents be it known,

You shall pay us a tax on tea;

'T is very small, – no load at all, –

Honor enough that we send the call.'

'Not so,' said Boston, 'good my lord,

We pay your governors here

Abundant for their bed and board,

Six thousand pounds a year.

(Your Highness knows our homely word,)

Millions for self-government

But for tribute never a cent.'

The cargo came! and who could blame

If _Indians_ seized the tea,

And, chest by chest, let down the same

Into the laughing sea?

For what avail the plough or sail,

Or land or life, if freedom fail?

The townsmen braved the English king,

Found friendship in the French,

And Honor joined the patriot ring

Low on their wooden bench.

O bounteous seas that never fail!

O day remembered yet!

O happy port that spied the sail

Which wafted Lafayette!

Pole-star of light in Europe's night,

That never faltered from the right.

Kings shook with fear, old empires crave

The secret force to find

Which fired the little State to save

The rights of all mankind.

But right is might through all the world;

Province to province faithful clung,

Through good and ill the war-bolt hurled,

Till Freedom cheered and the joy-bells rung.

The sea returning day by day

Restores the world-wide mart;

So let each dweller on the Bay

Fold Boston in his heart,

Till these echoes be choked with snows,

Or over the town blue ocean flows.

Let the blood of her hundred thousands

Throb in each manly vein;

And the wit of all her wisest,

Make sunshine in her brain.

For you can teach the lightning speech,

And round the globe your voices reach.

And each shall care for other,

And each to each shall bend,

To the poor a noble brother,

To the good an equal friend.

A blessing through the ages thus

Shield all thy roofs and towers!

_God with the fathers, so with us_ ,

Thou darling town of ours!

##  SILENCE

They put their finger on their lip, –

The Powers above;

The seas their islands clip,

The moons in Ocean dip, –

They love but name not love.

## THE THREE DIMENSIONS

'Room for the spheres!' – then first they shined,

And dived into the ample sky;

'Room! room!' cried the new mankind,

And took the oath of liberty.

Room! room! willed the opening mind,

And found it in Variety.

## MOTTO TO 'THE POET'

A moody child and wildly wise

Pursued the game with joyful eyes,

Which chose, like meteors, their way,

And rived the dark with private ray:

They overleapt the horizon's edge,

Searched with Apollo's privilege;

Through man, and woman, and sea, and star,

Saw the dance of nature forward far;

Through worlds, and races, and terms, and times,

Saw musical order, and pairing rhymes.

## MOTTO TO 'GIFTS'

Gifts of one who loved me, –

'T was high time they came;

When he ceased to love me,

Time they stopped for shame.

## MOTTO TO 'NATURE'

The rounded world is fair to see,

Nine times folded in mystery:

Though baffled seers cannot impart

The secret of its laboring heart,

Throb thine with Nature's throbbing breast,

And all is clear from east to west.

Spirit that lurks each form within

Beckons to spirit of its kin;

Self-kindled every atom glows,

And hints the future which it owes.

## MOTTO TO 'NOMINALIST AND REALIST'

In countless upward-striving waves

The moon-drawn tide-wave strives;

In thousand far-transplanted grafts

The parent fruit survives;

So, in the new-born millions,

The perfect Adam lives.

Not less are summer-mornings dear

To every child they wake,

And each with novel life his sphere

Fills for his proper sake.

## MOTTO TO 'HISTORY'

There is no great and no small

To the Soul that maketh all:

And where it cometh, all things are;

And it cometh everywhere.

## SOUTH WIND

In the turbulent beauty

Of a gusty autumn day,

Poet in a wood-crowned headland

Sighed his soul away.

Farms the sunny landscape dappled,

Swan-down clouds dappled the farms,

Cattle lowed in hazy distance

Where far oaks outstretched their arms.

Sudden gusts came full of meaning,

All too much to him they said; –

Southwinds have long memories,

Of that be none afraid.

I cannot tell rude listeners

Half the telltale Southwind said,

'Twould bring the blushes of yon maples

To a man and to a maid.

# From  
THE UNPUBLISHED  
POEMS

William does thy frigid soul,

The charms of poetry deny,

And think thy heart beyond controul,

Of each Parnassian Deity?

This I suspect from that cold look,

Quenching like ice Apollo's fire,

With which each vagrant verse you took,

When offer'd from my humble lyre.

Not that in truth I mean to say,

I ever had a lyre – not I –

Rhymers you know have got a way,

To Tell a _bumper_ , alias _lie_. –

– I love quotations – Dr Gibbs –

Or some one else perhaps – has said,

– Poets have leave to publish fibs,

And 't is a portion of their trade –

But to return – 't is wrong to say,

That I should not have leave to write,

My maxim is – write while it's day, –

For soon, forsooth it will be night,

That is – poor Ralph must versify,

Through College _like a thousand drums_

But when well _through_ then then oh my

The dark dull _night_ of Business comes.

While this my letter you peruse,

Frown no long-faced _apostrophe_ ,

Dare not to blame the wayward muse,

Nor scowl the _scrof'lous_ brow at me –

* * *

Perhaps thy lot in life is higher

Than the fates assign to me

While they fulfil thy large desire

And bid my hopes as visions flee

But grant me still in joy or sorrow

In grief or hope to claim thy heart

And I will then defy the morrow

Whilst I fulfil a loyal part.

## SONG  
 _Tune 'Scots wha hae wi' Wallace bled'_

Shout for those whose course is done, –

Bow you to their setting sun,

– Souls of patriots who won

Noble Liberty.

Fell Britannia's tyrant power

Quailed in combat's fearful hour;

Lowly did the Lion cower

To their victory.

Stars of Freedom's spangled banner!

Burst ye forth in loud hosanna,

While the morning breezes fan her

Passing cheerfully.

Celebrate with song today,

Feats of eras far away

Ruin to the British sway

O'er Columbia

* * *

I spread my gorgeous sail

Upon a starless sea

And o'er the deep with a chilly gale

My painted bark sailed fast & free –

Old Ocean shook his waves

Beneath the roaring wind,

But the little keel of the mariner braves

The foaming abyss, & the midnight blind.

The firmament darkened overhead,

Below, the surges swelled, –

My bark ran low in the watery bed,

As the tempest breath its course compelled.

I took my silver lyre,

And waked its voice on high; –

The wild blasts were hushed to admire,

And the stars looked out from the charmed sky.

Bear me then, ye wild waters,

To Apollo's Delphian isle,

My name is _Music_ , in Castalie known,

Where bowers of joy the Nine beguile. –

* * *

O what is Heaven but the fellowship

Of minds that each can stand against the world,

By its own meek but incorruptible will?

* * *

Ah strange strange strange

The Dualism of man –

That he can enlist

But half his being in his act.

* * *

See yonder leafless trees against the sky,

How they diffuse themselves into the air,

And ever subdividing separate,

Limbs into branches, branches into twigs,

As if they loved the element, & hasted

To dissipate their being into it.

* * *

Do that which you can do

The world will feel its need of you.

* * *

Few are free

All might be

'T is the height

Of the soul's flight

* * *

**_Van Buren_**

The towers that generations did combine

To build & grace, a rat may undermine.

* * *

**_The Future_**

How many big events to shake the earth,

Lie packed in silence waiting for their birth.

* * *

**_Rex_**

The bard & mystic held me for their own

I filled the dream of sad poetic maids

I took the friendly noble by the hand

I was the trustee of the handcartman

The brother of the fisher, porter, swain, –

And these from the crowd's edge well pleased beheld

The honor done to me as done to them.

* * *

And when I am entombed in my place,

Be it remembered of a single man,

He never, though he dearly loved his race,

For fear of human eyes, swerved from his plan.

* * *

Bard or dunce is blest, but hard

Is it to be half a bard.

* * *

It takes philosopher or fool

To build a fire or keep a school.

* * *

Tell men what they knew before

Paint the prospect from their door.

* * *

I use the knife

To save the life.

* * *

There is no evil but can speak,

If the wheel want oil 't will creak.

* * *

The sea reflects the rosy sky,

The sky doth marry the blue main.

* * *

In this sour world, O summerwind

Who taught thee sweet to blow

Who should not love me, summerwind,

If thou canst flatter so

* * *

Look danger in the eye it vanishes

Anatomize that roaring populace

Big dire & overwhelming as they seem

Piecemeal 't is nothing. Some of them scream

Fearing the others some are lookers on

One of them hectic day by day consumes

And one will die tomorrow of the flux

One of them has already changed his mind

And falls out with the ringleader and one

Has seen his creditor amidst the crowd

And flees. And there are heavy eyes

That miss their sleep & meditate retreat.

A few malignant heads keep up the din

The rest are idle boys.

* * *

As I walked in the wood

The silence into music broke

Sang the thrush in the dark oak

I unwilling to intrude

Slink into nigh solitude

Till warned by a scout of a jay

That flying courier so gay

That he sees me if I see not him

His eyes are bright if mine are dim

* * *

I sat upon the ground

I leaned against an ancient pine

The pleasant breeze

Shook the forest tops like waves of ocean

I felt of the trunk the gentle motion

* * *

Good Charles the spring's adorer

True worshipper of Flora

Know'st thou the gay Rhodora

That blossoms in the May?

It blooms in dark nooks

By the wood loving brooks

And makes their twilight gay.

* * *

Around the man who seeks a noble end

Not angels but divinities attend.

* * *

In the deep heart of man a poet dwells

Who all the day of life his summer story tells

Scatters on every eye dust of his spells

Scent form & color to the flowers & shells

Wins the believing child with wondrous tales

Touches a cheek with colors of romance

And crowds a history into a glance

Gives beauty to the lake & fountain

Spies over sea the fires of the mountain

When thrushes ope their throat, 't is he that sings

And he that paints the oriole's fiery wings

The little Shakspeare in the maiden's heart

Makes Romeo of a ploughboy on his cart

Opens the eye to Virtue's starlike meed

And gives persuasion to a gentle deed.

* * *

O what are heroes prophets men

But pipes through which the breath of Pan doth blow

A momentary music. Being's tide

Swells hitherward & myriads of forms

Live, robed with beauty, painted by the Sun:

Their dust pervaded by the nerves of God

Throbs with an overmastering energy

Knowing & doing. Ebbs the tide, they lie

White hollow shells upon the desart shore.

But not the less the eternal wave rolls on

To animate new millions, & exhale

Races & planets its enchanted foam.

* * *

Yet sometime to the sorrow stricken

Shall his own sorrow seem impertinent

A thing that takes no more root in the world

Than doth the traveller's shadow on the rock

* * *

### _The Bohemian Hymn_

In many forms we try

To utter God's infinity

But the boundless hath no form

And the Universal Friend

Doth as far transcend

An angel as a worm.

The great Idea baffles wit

Language falters under it

It leaves the learned in the lurch

Nor art nor power nor toil can find

The measure of the eternal Mind

Nor hymn nor prayer nor church.

* * *

Kind & holy were the words –

O how trustingly they fell!

Music wants such sweet accords –

Sister, this thy perfect spell.

All the woman now was dropt,

All the friend came forth to me,

The beauty I had pictured oft

Was vanished utterly

Before the dearer emanation

Of undefiled affection,

Of earnest, wistful, ancient love,

With clear & liquid eye,

Older than the gods above,

Fountain of their deity.

Yet thou showed me no love

For the sake of love,

That for meaner souls was made

To whom passion is their bread.

Thou didst wrap thy love in thought

It to me in wisdom taught

In the rapid utterance

Of thy noble aim & hope

In the clear deliverance

Of the will's & wisdom's scope.

Now pleasant fall the blinding snows,

And gay to me the darkest night,

A merry catch the cold wind blows,

And Pain can yield its own delight,

Whilst thou to me & I to thee belong

By the high kin of thought, O Sister of my song!

* * *

Divine Inviters! I accept

The courtesy ye have shown & kept

From ancient ages for the bard,

To modulate

With finer fate

A fortune harsh & hard.

With aim like yours

I watch your course,

Who never break your lawful dance

By error or intemperance.

O birds of ether without wings!

O heavenly ships without a sail!

O fire of fire! O best of things!

O mariners who never fail!

Sail swiftly through your amber vault

An animated law, a presence to exalt

* * *

Go if thou wilt ambrosial Flower

Go match thee with thy seeming peers

I will wait Heaven's perfect hour

Through the innumerable years

* * *

In Walden wood the chickadee

Runs round the pine & maple tree,

Intent on insect slaughter:

O tufted entomologist!

Devour as many as you list,

Then drink in Walden Water.

* * *

Star seer Copernicus

Only could earn a curse

A slip of a fellow to show men the stars

What a scandalous slip of a fellow was he

Presuming to show what men wished not to see

Misunderstood – Misunderstood

How dared the old graybeard be misunderstood

* * *

At last the poet spoke

The richest gifts are vain

As lightning in yon dark clouds' grain

A poison in the world's veins creeps

A devil in celestial deeps

* * *

I grieve that better souls than mine

Docile read my measured line

High destined youths & holy maids

Hallow these my orchard shades

Environ me & me baptize

With light that streams from gracious eyes,

I dare not be beloved or known,

I ungrateful, I alone.

* * *

### _Nantasket_

Lobster-car, boat, or fishbasket,

Peeps, noddies, oldsquaws, or quail,

To Musketaquid what from Nantasket,

What token of greeting & hail?

Can we tie up & send you our thunder, –

Pulse-beat of the sea on the shore?

Or our Rainbow, the daughter of Wonder,

Our rock Massasoit's palace-door.

White pebbles from Nantasket beach,

Whereon to write the maiden's name;

Shells, sea-eggs, sea flowers, could they teach

Thee the fair haunts from whence they came!

* * *

### _Water_

The Water understands

Civilization well –

It wets my foot, but prettily,

It chills my life, but wittily,

It is not disconcerted,

It is not broken-hearted,

Well used, it decketh joy,

Adorneth, doubleth joy;

Ill-used it will destroy

In perfect time and measure,

With a face of golden pleasure,

Elegantly destroy.

* * *

Where the fungus broad & red

Lifts its head

Like poisoned loaf of elfin bread

Where the aster grew

With the social goldenrod

In a chapel which the dew

Made beautiful for God

The maple street

In the houseless wood

O what would nature say

She spared no speech today

The fungus & the bulrush spoke

Answered the pinetree & the oak

The wizard South blew down the glen

Filled the straits & filled the wide,

Each maple leaf turned up its silver side.

All things shine in his damp ray

And all we see are pictures high

Many a high hill side

Which oaks of pride

Climb to their tops

And boys run out upon their leafy ropes

In the houseless wood

Voices followed after

Every shrub & grapeleaf

Rang with fairy laughter

I have heard them fall

Like the strain of all

King Oberon's minstrelsy

Would hear the everlasting

And know the only strong

You must worship fasting

You must listen long

Words of the air

Which birds of the air

Carry aloft below around

To the isles of the deep

To the snow-capped steep

To the thundercloud

To the loud bazaar

To the haram of Caliph & Kremlin of Czar

Is the verse original

Let its numbers rise & fall

As the winds do when they call

One to another

Come search the wood for flowers

Wild tea & wild pea

Grape vine & succory

Coreopsis

And liatris

Flaunting in their bowers

Grass with greenflag halfmast high

Succory to match the sky

Columbine with horn of honey

Scented fern & agrimony

Forest full of essences

Fit for fairy presences,

Peppermint & sassafras

Sweet fern, mint, & vernal grass,

Panax, black birch, sugar maple,

Sweet & scent for Dian's table,

Elder-blow, sarsaparilla,

Wild-rose, lily, dry vanilla.

* * *

From the stores of eldest Matter

The deep-eyed flame obedient water

Transparent air all-feeding earth

He took the flower of all their worth

And best with best in sweet consent

Combined a new temperament.

* * *

And the best gift of God

Is the love of superior souls

* * *

Stout Sparta shrined the god of Laughter

In a niche below the rafter,

Visible from every seat

Where the young men carve their meat.

* * *

Brother, no decrepitude

Cramps the limbs of Time;

As fleet his feet, his hands as good,

His vision as sublime.

As when at first Jehovah hurled

The Sun & each revolving world.

* * *

Who knows this or that

Hark in the wall to the rat

Since the world was, he has gnawed;

Of his wisdom of his fraud

What dost thou know

In the wretched little beast

Is life & heart

Child & parent

Not without relation

To fruitful field & sun & moon

What art thou? his wicked eye

Is cruel to thy cruelty.

* * *

Saadi loved the new & old

The near & far the town & wold –

Him when Genius urged to roam

Stronger Custom brot him home

* * *

And as the light divided the dark

Thorough with living swords

So shalt thou pierce the distant age

With adamantine words.

* * *

When devils bite

A damned parasite

Strikes at their throat & stings them home

* * *

Comfort with a purring cat

Prosperity in a white hat

* * *

I cannot find a place so lonely

To harbour thee & me only

I cannot find a nook so deep

So sheltered may suffice to keep

The ever glowing festival

When thou & I to each are all

* * *

This shining hour is an edifice

Which the Omnipotent cannot rebuild

* * *

The sparrow is rich in her nest

The bee has her desire

The lover in his love is blest

The poet in his brain of fire

* * *

Bended to fops who bent to him

Surface with surfaces did swim

And in the fashionable crowd

None more obsequious heartless bowed

'Sorrow! Sorrow!' the Angels cried

'Is this dear nature's manly pride!

Call hither thy mortal enemy

Make him glad thy fall to see.'

* * *

### _Elizabeth Hoar_

Almost I am tempted to essay

For sympathetic eyes the portraiture

Of the good angels that environ me.

My sister is a Greek in mind & face

And well embodies to these latest years

The truth of those high sculptors old who drew

In marble or in bronze, on vase or frieze

The perfect forms of Pallas or the Muse;

Forms in simplicity complete

And beauty of the soul disdaining art.

So bright, so positive, so much itself,

Yet so adapted to the work it wrought

It drew true love, but was complete alone.

She seemed to commune with herself, & say,

I cannot stoop to custom & the crowd,

For either I will marry with a star,

Or I will pick threads in a factory.

So perfect in her action, one would say,

She condescended if she added speech.

Her look was sympathy, & though she spoke

Better than all the rest, she did not speak

Worthy of her. She read in many books,

And loved the Greek as 't were her mother tongue

She knew the value of the passing day

Thought it no mark of virtue to be scornful

Or cry for better company, but held

Each day a solid good; never mistook

The fashionable judgment for her own.

So keen perception that no judge or scribe

Could vie with her unerring estimate.

When through much silence & delay she spoke,

It was the Mind's own oracle, through joy

And love of truth or beauty so perceived:

Never a poor return on self.

* * *

Cloud upon cloud

The world is a seeming,

Feigns dying, but dies not,

Corpses rise ruddy,

Follow their funerals.

Seest thou not brother

Drops hate detachment,

And atoms disorder,

How they run into plants,

And grow into beauties.

The darkness will glow,

The solitude sing

* * *

Since the devil hopping on

From bush to vine from man to dame

Marshals temptations

A million deep

And ever new beauties rise

And with what faults soever

The stock of illusion

Is inexhaustible

I meantime depreciate

Every hour in the market

But the wares I would buy

Are enhanced every hour

I see no other way

Than to run violently from the market

* * *

Poets are colorpots

Dovesnecks & opaline

Exquisite daintiness

Vapors of wine

Delicate gloom

Barrel of opium

Blowing simoom

Cloud-collecting, dissipating

Brain relaxing enervating

Put your body on your word

Man & sonnet at accord

Set your foot upon the scales

My foot weighs just a pound

Said the cruel Yankee captain

Trucking for his precious bales

Of ermine skin & silver fur

With the painted islander.

* * *

Thanks to those who go & come

Bringing Hellas, Thebes, & Rome,

As near to me as is my home:

Careful husbands of the mind

Who keep decaying history good,

And do not suffer Tyre or Troy

To know decrepitude.

* * *

I must not borrow light

From history trite

But from friends whom God gave

And the destiny I have

* * *

Comrade of the snow & wind

He left each civil scale behind

Him woodgods fed with honey wild

And of his memory beguiled

In caves & hollow trees he crept

And near the wolf & panther slept

He came to the green ocean's rim

And saw the sea birds skim

Summer & winter o'er the wave

Like creatures made of skiey mould

Impassible to heat or cold.

He stood beside the main

Beautiful but insane

He felt himself as if the sky walked

Or the son of the wind

There was no man near

To mete himself withal

* * *

God only knew how Saadi dined

Roses he ate, & drank the wind

* * *

Friends to me are frozen wine

I wait the sun shall on them shine

* * *

That each should in his house abide,

Therefore was the world so wide

### _New England Capitalist_

What are his machines

Of steel, brass, leather, oak, & ivory,

But manikins & miniatures,

Dwarfs of one faculty, measured from him,

As nimbly he applies his bending self

Unto the changing world, thus making that

Another weapon of his conquering will?

He built the mills, & by his polities, made

The arms of millions turn them.

Stalwart New Hampshire, mother of men,

Sea-dented Maine, reluctant Carolina,

Must drag his coach, & by arts of peace

He, in the plenitude of love & honor,

Eats up the poor, – poor citizen poor state.

Much has he done,

Has made his telegraph,

Propeller, car, post-office, phototype,

His coast survey, vote by majority,

His life assurance, & star registry,

Preludes & hints of what he meditates; –

Now let him make a harp!

* * *

On a raisin stone

The wheels of nature turn,

Out of it the fury comes

Wherewith the spondyls burn.

And, because the seed of the vine

Is creation's heart,

Wash with wine those eyes of thine

To know the hidden part.

Wine is translated wit,

Wine is the day of day,

Wine from the veiled secret

Tears the veil away.

* * *

Go out into Nature and plant trees

That when the southwind blows

You shall not be warm in your own limbs

But in ten thousand limbs & ten million leaves

Of your blossoming trees of orchard & forest

* * *

Pale Genius roves alone,

No scout can track his way,

None credits him till he have shown

His diamonds to the day.

Not his the feaster's wine,

Nor land, nor gold, nor power,

By want & pain God screeneth him

Till his elected hour.

Go, speed the stars of Thought

On to their shining goals; –

The sower scatters broad his seed,

The wheat thou strew' st be souls.

* * *

Burn your literary verses.

Give us rather the glib curses

Of the truckmen in the street,

Songs of the forecastle

To the caboose.

* * *

Intellect

Gravely broods apart on joy,

And truth to tell, amused by pain

* * *

The civil world will much forgive

To bards who from its maxims live

But if, grown bold, the poet dare

Bend his practice to his prayer,

And, following his mighty heart

Shame the time, & live apart,

_Vae solis!_

I found this, –

That of goods I could not miss

If I fell within the line,

Once a member, all was mine,

Houses, banquets, gardens, fountains,

Fortune's delectable mountains;

But if I would walk alone,

Was neither cloak nor crumb my own

* * *

Mask thy wisdom with delight,

Toy with the bow, yet hit the white.

The lesson which the Muses say

Was sweet to hear & to obey.

He loved to round a verse, & play,

Without remoter hope, or fear,

Or purpose, than to please his ear.

And all the golden summer-time

Rung out the hours with happy rhyme.

Meantime every cunning word

Tribes & ages overheard:

Those idle catches told the laws

Holding nature to her Cause.

* * *

Roomy Eternity

Casts her schemes rarely,

And an aeon allows

For each quality and part

In the multitudinous

And many-chambered heart.

* * *

### _Terminus_

For thought & not praise;

Thought is the wages

For which I sell days,

Will gladly sell ages,

And willing grow old,

Deaf, & dumb, & blind, & cold,

Melting matter into dreams,

Panoramas which I saw

And whatever glows or seems

Into substance into Law

* * *

More sweet than my refrain

Was the first drop of April rain

* * *

O Boston city lecture-hearing,

O unitarian God-fearing,

But more, I fear, bad men-revering;

Too civil by half, thine evil guest

Makes thee his byword & his jest,

And scorns the men that honeyed the pest,

Piso & Atticus, with the rest.

Thy fault is much civility,

Thy bane, respectability.

And thou hadst been as wise, & wiser,

Lacking the Daily Advertiser.

Ah, gentlemen, – for you are gentle, –

And mental maids, not sentimental.

* * *

A patch of meadow & upland

Reached by a mile of road,

Soothed by the voice of waters,

With birds & flowers bestowed.

This is my book of Chronicles,

Code, Psalter, lexicon,

My Genesis & calendar

I read it as I run.

It is my consolation

In mild or poignant grief,

My park & my gymnasium,

My out-of-door relief.

I come to it for strength,

Which it can well supply,

For Love draws might from terrene force

And potences of sky.

The tremulous battery, earth,

Responds to touch of man,

It thrills to the antipodes,

From Boston to Japan.

The planets' child the planet knows

And to his joy replies;

To the lark's trill unfolds the rose,

Clouds flush their gayest dyes.

When Ali prayed & loved

Where Syrian waters roll,

Upward the ninth heaven thrilled & moved

At the tread of the jubilant soul.

* * *

And he like me is not too proud

To be the poet of the crowd

* * *

Parks & ponds are good by day,

But where's the husband doth delight

In black acres of the night?

Not my unseasoned step disturbs

The sleeps of trees or dreams of herbs

* * *

For Lyra yet shall be the pole

And grass grow in the Capitol

* * *

A score of airy miles will smooth

Rough Monadnock to a gem.

* * *

All things rehearse

The meaning of the universe

* * *

Pedants all,

They would be original;

The mute pebble shames their wit,

The echo is ironical

And wiser silence swallows speech.

* * *

I leave the book, I leave the wine,

I breathe freer by the pine:

In houses, I am low & mean,

Mountain waters wash me clean,

And by the seawaves I am strong,

I hear their medicinal song,

No balsam but the breeze I crave,

And no physician but the wave.

* * *

Easy to match what others do,

Perform the feat as well as they;

Hard to outdo the wise, the true,

And find a loftier way.

The school decays, the learning spoils,

Because of the sons of wine: –

How snatch the stripling from their toils?

Yet can one ray of truth divine

The banquet's blaze outshine.

* * *

If wishes would carry me over the land,

I would ride with free bridle today,

I would greet every tree with a grasp of my hand,

I would drink of each river, & swim in each bay.

* * *

### _Maia_

Illusion works impenetrable,

Weaving webs innumerable,

Her gay pictures never fail,

Crowds each on other, veil on veil,

Charmer who will be believed

By Man who thirsts to be deceived.

* * *

Seyd planted where the deluge ploughed,

His hired hands were wind & cloud

His eyes could spy the gods concealed

In each hummock of the field

* * *

Forbore the ant hill, shunned to tread,

In mercy, on one little head

* * *

Borrow Urania's subtile wings

Chasing with words fast-flowing things:

Cling to the sacred fact, nor try

To plant thy shrivelled pedantry

On the shoulders of the sky.

* * *

The comrade or the book is good

That puts me in a working mood:

Unless to thought be added will,

Apollo is an imbecile.

What parts, what truth, what fancies shine!

– Ah! but I miss the just design.

* * *

Is the pace of nature slow?

Why not from strength to strength

From miracle to miracle

And not as now with retardation

As with sprained foot

* * *

Why honor the new men

Who never understood the old

* * *

Think not the gods receive thy prayer

In ear & heart, but find it there.

* * *

Inspired we must forget our books,

To see the landscape's royal looks.

* * *

Upon a rock yet uncreate

Amid a Chaos inchoate

An uncreated being sate

Beneath him rock

Above him cloud

And the cloud was rock

And the rock was cloud

The rock then growing soft & warm

The cloud began to take a form

A form chaotic vast & vague

Which issued in the cosmic egg

Then the being uncreate

Upon the egg did incubate

And thus became an incubator

And of the egg did allegate

And thus became an alligator

And the incubate was potentate

But the alligator was potentator

# LONGER POEMS

## WOODNOTES I

1.

For this present, hard

Is the fortune of the bard,

Born out of time;

All his accomplishment,

From Nature's utmost treasure spent,

Booteth not him.

When the pine tosses its cones

To the song of its waterfall tones,

He speeds to the woodland walks,

To birds and trees he talks:

Cæsar of his leafy Rome,

There the poet is at home.

He goes to the river-side, –

Not hook nor line hath he;

He stands in the meadows wide, –

Nor gun nor scythe to see;

With none has he to do,

And none seek him,

Nor men below,

Nor spirits dim.

Sure some god his eye enchants:

What he knows nobody wants.

In the wood he travels glad,

Without better fortune had,

Melancholy without bad.

Planter of celestial plants,

What he knows nobody wants;

What he knows he hides, not vaunts.

Knowledge this man prizes best

Seems fantastic to the rest:

Pondering shadows, colors, clouds,

Grass-buds, and caterpillar-shrouds,

Boughs on which the wild bees settle,

Tints that spot the violets' petal,

Why Nature loves the number five,

And why the star-form she repeats:

Lover of all things alive,

Wonderer at all he meets,

Wonderer chiefly at himself, –

Who can tell him what he is?

Or how meet in human elf

Coming and past eternities?

2.

And such I knew, a forest seer,

A minstrel of the natural year,

Foreteller of the vernal ides,

Wise harbinger of spheres and tides,

A lover true, who knew by heart

Each joy the mountain dales impart;

It seemed that Nature could not raise

A plant in any secret place,

In quaking bog, on snowy hill,

Beneath the grass that shades the rill,

Under the snow, between the rocks,

In damp fields known to bird and fox,

But he would come in the very hour

It opened in its virgin bower,

As if a sunbeam showed the place,

And tell its long-descended race.

It seemed as if the breezes brought him;

It seemed as if the sparrows taught him;

As if by secret sight he knew

Where, in far fields, the orchis grew.

Many haps fall in the field

Seldom seen by wishful eyes,

But all her shows did Nature yield,

To please and win this pilgrim wise.

He saw the partridge drum in the woods;

He heard the woodcock's evening hymn;

He found the tawny thrush's broods;

And the shy hawk did wait for him;

What others did at distance hear,

And guessed within the thicket's gloom,

Was showed to this philosopher,

And at his bidding seemed to come.

3.

In unploughed Maine he sought the lumberers' gang,

Where from a hundred lakes young rivers sprang;

He trode the unplanted forest floor, whereon

The all-seeing sun for ages hath not shone;

Where feeds the moose, and walks the surly bear,

And up the tall mast runs the woodpecker.

He saw beneath dim aisles, in odorous beds,

The slight Linnæa hang its twin-born heads,

And blessed the monument of the man of flowers,

Which breathes his sweet fame through the northern bowers.

He heard, when in the grove, at intervals,

With sudden roar the aged pine-tree falls, –

One crash, the death-hymn of the perfect tree,

Declares the close of its green century.

Low lies the plant to whose creation went

Sweet influence from every element;

Whose living towers the years conspired to build,

Whose giddy top the morning loved to gild.

Through these green tents, by eldest Nature dressed,

He roamed, content alike with man and beast.

Where darkness found him he lay glad at night;

There the red morning touched him with its light.

Three moons his great heart him a hermit made,

So long he roved at will the boundless shade.

The timid it concerns to ask their way,

And fear what foe in caves and swamps can stray,

To make no step until the event is known,

And ills to come as evils past bemoan.

Not so the wise; no coward watch he keeps

To spy what danger on his pathway creeps;

Go where he will, the wise man is at home,

His hearth the earth, – his hall the azure dome;

Where his clear spirit leads him, there's his road,

By God's own light illumined and foreshowed.

4.

'Twas one of the charmed days,

When the genius of God doth flow,

The wind may alter twenty ways,

A tempest cannot blow;

It may blow north, it still is warm;

Or south, it still is clear;

Or east, it smells like a clover-farm;

Or west, no thunder fear.

The musing peasant lowly great

Beside the forest water sate;

The rope-like pine roots crosswise grown

Composed the network of his throne;

The wide lake, edged with sand and grass,

Was burnished to a floor of glass,

Painted with shadows green and proud

Of the tree and of the cloud.

He was the heart of all the scene;

On him the sun looked more serene;

To hill and cloud his face was known, –

It seemed the likeness of their own;

They knew by secret sympathy

The public child of earth and sky.

'You ask,' he said, 'what guide

Me through trackless thickets led,

Through thick-stemmed woodlands rough and wide?

I found the water's bed.

The watercourses were my guide;

I travelled grateful by their side,

Or through their channel dry;

They led me through the thicket damp,

Through brake and fern, the beavers' camp,

Through beds of granite cut my road,

And their resistless friendship showed;

The falling waters led me,

The foodful waters fed me,

And brought me to the lowest land,

Unerring to the ocean sand.

The moss upon the forest bark

Was polestar when the night was dark;

The purple berries in the wood

Supplied me necessary food;

For Nature ever faithful is

To such as trust her faithfulness.

When the forest shall mislead me,

When the night and morning lie,

When sea and land refuse to feed me,

'Twill be time enough to die;

Then will yet my mother yield

A pillow in her greenest field,

Nor the June flowers scorn to cover

The clay of their departed lover.'

## MAY-DAY

Daughter of Heaven and Earth, coy Spring,

With sudden passion languishing,

Maketh all things softly smile,

Painteth pictures mile on mile,

Holds a cup with cowslip-wreaths,

Whence a smokeless incense breathes.

Girls are peeling the sweet willow,

Poplar white, and Gilead-tree,

And troops of boys

Shouting with whoop and hilloa,

And hip, hip, three times three.

The air is full of whistlings bland;

What was that I heard

Out of the hazy land?

Harp of the wind, or song of bird,

Or clapping of shepherd's hands,

Or vagrant booming of the air,

Voice of a meteor lost in day?

Such tidings of the starry sphere

Can this elastic air convey.

Or haply 't was the cannonade

Of the pent and darkened lake,

Cooled by the pendent mountain's shade,

Whose deeps, till beams of noonday break,

Afflicted moan, and latest hold

Even into May the iceberg cold.

Was it a squirrel's pettish bark,

Or clarionet of jay? or hark,

Where yon wedged line the Nestor leads,

Steering north with raucous cry

Through tracts and provinces of sky,

Every night alighting down

In new landscapes of romance,

Where darkling feed the clamorous clans

By lonely lakes to men unknown.

Come the tumult whence it will,

Voice of sport, or rush of wings,

It is a sound, it is a token

That the marble sleep is broken,

And a change has passed on things.

Beneath the calm, within the light,

A hid unruly appetite

Of swifter life, a surer hope,

Strains every sense to larger scope,

Impatient to anticipate

The halting steps of aged Fate.

Slow grows the palm, too slow the pearl:

When Nature falters, fain would zeal

Grasp the felloes of her wheel,

And grasping give the orbs another whirl.

Turn swiftlier round, O tardy ball!

And sun this frozen side,

Bring hither back the robin's call,

Bring back the tulip's pride.

Why chidest thou the tardy Spring?

The hardy bunting does not chide;

The blackbirds make the maples ring

With social cheer and jubilee;

The redwing flutes his _o-ka-lee_ ,

The robins know the melting snow;

The sparrow meek, prophetic-eyed,

Her nest beside the snow-drift weaves,

Secure the osier yet will hide

Her callow brood in mantling leaves;

And thou, by science all undone,

Why only must thy reason fail

To see the southing of the sun?

As we thaw frozen flesh with snow,

So Spring will not, foolish fond,

Mix polar night with tropic glow,

Nor cloy us with unshaded sun,

Nor wanton skip with bacchic dance,

But she has the temperance

Of the gods, whereof she is one, –

Masks her treasury of heat

Under east-winds crossed with sleet.

Plants and birds and humble creatures

Well accept her rule austere;

Titan-born, to hardy natures

Cold is genial and dear.

As Southern wrath to Northern right

Is but straw to anthracite;

As in the day of sacrifice,

When heroes piled the pyre,

The dismal Massachusetts ice

Burned more than others' fire,

So Spring guards with surface cold

The garnered heat of ages old:

Hers to sow the seed of bread,

That man and all the kinds be fed;

And, when the sunlight fills the hours,

Dissolves the crust, displays the flowers.

The world rolls round, – mistrust it not, –

Befalls again what once befell;

All things return, both sphere and mote,

And I shall hear my bluebird's note,

And dream the dream of Auburn dell.

When late I walked, in earlier days,

All was stiff and stark;

Knee-deep snows choked all the ways,

In the sky no spark;

Firm-braced I sought my ancient woods,

Struggling through the drifted roads;

The whited desert knew me not,

Snow-ridges masked each darling spot;

The summer dells, by genius haunted,

One arctic moon had disenchanted.

All the sweet secrets therein hid

By Fancy, ghastly spells undid.

Eldest mason, Frost, had piled,

With wicked ingenuity,

Swift cathedrals in the wild;

The piny hosts were sheeted ghosts

In the star-lit minster aisled.

I found no joy: the icy wind

Might rule the forest to his mind.

Who would freeze in frozen brakes?

Back to books and sheltered home,

And wood-fire flickering on the walls,

To hear, when, 'mid our talk and games,

Without the baffled north-wind calls.

But soft! a sultry morning breaks;

The cowslips make the brown brook gay;

A happier hour, a longer day.

Now the sun leads in the May,

Now desire of action wakes,

And the wish to roam.

The caged linnet in the spring

Hearkens for the choral glee,

When his fellows on the wing

Migrate from the Southern Sea;

When trellised grapes their flowers unmask,

And the new-born tendrils twine,

The old wine darkling in the cask

Feels the bloom on the living vine,

And bursts the hoops at hint of spring:

And so, perchance, in Adam's race,

Of Eden's bower some dream-like trace

Survived the Flight, and swam the Flood,

And wakes the wish in youngest blood

To tread the forfeit Paradise,

And feed once more the exile's eyes;

And ever when the happy child

In May beholds the blooming wild,

And hears in heaven the bluebird sing,

'Onward,' he cries, 'your baskets bring, –

In the next field is air more mild,

And o'er yon hazy crest is Eden's balmier spring.'

Not for a regiment's parade,

Nor evil laws or rulers made,

Blue Walden rolls its cannonade,

But for a lofty sign

Which the Zodiac threw,

That the bondage-days are told,

And waters free as winds shall flow.

Lo! how all the tribes combine

To rout the flying foe.

See, every patriot oak-leaf throws

His elfin length upon the snows,

Not idle, since the leaf all day

Draws to the spot the solar ray,

Ere sunset quarrying inches down,

And half-way to the mosses brown;

While the grass beneath the rime

Has hints of the propitious time,

And upward pries and perforates

Through the cold slab a thousand gates,

Till green lances peering through

Bend happy in the welkin blue.

April cold with dropping rain

Willows and lilacs brings again,

The whistle of returning birds,

And trumpet-lowing of the herds.

The scarlet maple-keys betray

What potent blood hath modest May;

What fiery force the earth renews,

The wealth of forms, the flush of hues;

Joy shed in rosy waves abroad

Flows from the heart of Love, the Lord.

Hither rolls the storm of heat;

I feel its finer billows beat

Like a sea which me infolds;

Heat with viewless fingers moulds,

Swells, and mellows, and matures,

Paints, and flavors, and allures,

Bird and brier inly warms,

Still enriches and transforms,

Gives the reed and lily length,

Adds to oak and oxen strength,

Boils the world in tepid lakes,

Burns the world, yet burnt remakes;

Enveloping heat, enchanted robe,

Wraps the daisy and the globe,

Transforming what it doth infold,

Life out of death, new out of old,

Painting fawns' and leopards' fells,

Seethes the gulf-encrimsoning shells,

Fires gardens with a joyful blaze

Of tulips, in the morning's rays.

The dead log touched bursts into leaf,

The wheat-blade whispers of the sheaf.

What god is this imperial Heat,

Earth's prime secret, sculpture's seat?

Doth it bear hidden in its heart

Water-line patterns of all art,

All figures, organs, hues, and graces?

Is it Dædalus? is it Love?

Or walks in mask almighty Jove,

And drops from Power's redundant horn

All seeds of beauty to be born?

Where shall we keep the holiday,

And duly greet the entering May?

Too strait and low our cottage doors,

And all unmeet our carpet floors;

Nor spacious court, nor monarch's hall,

Suffice to hold the festival.

Up and away! where haughty woods

Front the liberated floods:

We will climb the broad-backed hills,

Hear the uproar of their joy;

We will mark the leaps and gleams

Of the new-delivered streams,

And the murmuring rivers of sap

Mount in the pipes of the trees,

Giddy with day, to the topmost spire,

Which for a spike of tender green

Bartered its powdery cap;

And the colors of joy in the bird,

And the love in its carol heard,

Frog and lizard in holiday coats,

And turtle brave in his golden spots;

We will hear the tiny roar

Of the insects evermore,

While cheerful cries of crag and plain

Reply to the thunder of river and main

As poured the flood of the ancient sea

Spilling over mountain chains,

Bending forests as bends the sedge,

Faster flowing o'er the plains, –

A world-wide wave with a foaming edge

That rims the running silver sheet, –

So pours the deluge of the heat

Broad northward o'er the land,

Painting artless paradises,

Drugging herbs with Syrian spices,

Fanning secret fires which glow

In columbine and clover-blow,

Climbing the northern zones,

Where a thousand pallid towns

Lie like cockles by the main,

Or tented armies on a plain.

The million-handed sculptor moulds

Quaintest bud and blossom folds,

The million-handed painter pours

Opal hues and purple dye;

Azaleas flush the island floors,

And the tints of heaven reply.

Wreaths for the May! for happy Spring

To-day shall all her dowry bring,

The love of kind, the joy, the grace,

Hymen of element and race,

Knowing well to celebrate

With song and hue and star and state,

With tender light and youthful cheer,

The spousals of the new-born year.

Lo Love's inundation poured

Over space and race abroad!

Spring is strong and virtuous,

Broad-sowing, cheerful, plenteous,

Quickening underneath the mould

Grains beyond the price of gold.

So deep and large her bounties are,

That one broad, long midsunmer day

Shall to the planet overpay

The ravage of a year of war.

Drug the cup, thou butler sweet,

And send the nectar round;

The feet that slid so long on sleet

Are glad to feel the ground.

Fill and saturate each kind

With good according to its mind,

Fill each kind and saturate

With good agreeing with its fate,

Willow and violet, maiden and man.

The bitter-sweet, the haunting air

Creepeth, bloweth everywhere;

It preys on all, all prey on it,

Blooms in beauty, thinks in wit,

Stings the strong with enterprise,

Makes travellers long for Indian skies,

And where it comes this courier fleet

Fans in all hearts expectance sweet,

As if to-morrow should redeem

The vanished rose of evening's dream.

By houses lies a fresher green,

On men and maids a ruddier mien,

As if time brought a new relay

Of shining virgins every May,

And Summer came to ripen maids

To a beauty that not fades.

The ground-pines wash their rusty green,

The maple-tops their crimson tint,

On the soft path each track is seen,

The girl's foot leaves its neater print.

The pebble loosened from the frost

Asks of the urchin to be tost.

In flint and marble beats a heart,

The kind Earth takes her children's part,

The green lane is the school-boy's friend,

Low leaves his quarrel apprehend,

The fresh ground loves his top and ball,

The air rings jocund to his call,

The brimming brook invites a leap,

He dives the hollow, climbs the steep.

The youth reads omens where he goes,

And speaks all languages the rose.

The wood-fly mocks with tiny noise

The far halloo of human voice;

The perfumed berry on the spray

Smacks of faint memories far away.

A subtle chain of countless rings

The next unto the farthest brings,

And, striving to be man, the worm

Mounts through all the spires of form.

I saw the bud-crowned Spring go forth,

Stepping daily onward north

To greet staid ancient cavaliers

Filing single in stately train.

And who, and who are the travellers?

They were Night and Day, and Day and Night,

Pilgrims wight with step forthright.

I saw the Days deformed and low,

Short and bent by cold and snow;

The merry Spring threw wreaths on them,

Flower-wreaths gay with bud and bell;

Many a flower and many a gem,

They were refreshed by the smell,

They shook the snow from hats and shoon,

They put their April raiment on;

And those eternal forms,

Unhurt by a thousand storms,

Shot up to the height of the sky again,

And danced as merrily as young men.

I saw them mask their awful glance

Sidewise meek in gossamer lids;

And to speak my thought if none forbids,

It was as if the eternal gods,

Tired of their starry periods,

Hid their majesty in cloth

Woven of tulips and painted moth.

On carpets green the maskers march

Below May's well-appointed arch,

Each star, each god, each grace amain,

Every joy and virtue speed,

Marching duly in her train,

And fainting Nature at her need

Is made whole again.

'T was the vintage-day of field and wood,

When magic wine for bards is brewed;

Every tree and stem and chink

Gushed with syrup to the brink.

The air stole into the streets of towns,

And betrayed the fund of joy

To the high-school and medalled boy:

On from hall to chamber ran,

From youth to maid, from boy to man,

To babes, and to old eyes as well.

'Once more,' the old man cried, 'ye clouds,

Airy turrets purple-piled,

Which once my infancy beguiled,

Beguile me with the wonted spell.

I know ye skilful to convoy

The total freight of hope and joy

Into rude and homely nooks,

Shed mocking lustres on shelf of books,

On farmer's byre, on meadow-pipes,

Or on a pool of dancing chips.

I care not if the pomps you show

Be what they soothfast appear,

Or if yon realms in sunset glow

Be bubbles of the atmosphere.

And if it be to you allowed

To fool me with a shining cloud,

So only new griefs are consoled

By new delights, as old by old,

Frankly I will be your guest,

Count your change and cheer the best.

The world hath overmuch of pain, –

If Nature give me joy again,

Of such deceit I'll not complain.'

Ah! well I mind the calendar,

Faithful through a thousand years,

Of the painted race of flowers,

Exact to days, exact to hours,

Counted on the spacious dial

Yon broidered zodiac girds.

I know the pretty almanac

Of the punctual coming-back,

On their due days, of the birds.

I marked them yestermorn,

A flock of finches darting

Beneath the crystal arch,

Piping, as they flew, a march, –

Belike the one they used in parting

Last year from yon oak or larch;

Dusky sparrows in a crowd,

Diving, darting northward free,

Suddenly betook them all,

Every one to his hole in the wall,

Or to his niche in the apple-tree.

I greet with joy the choral trains

Fresh from palms and Cuba's canes.

Best gems of Nature's cabinet,

With dews of tropic morning wet,

Beloved of children, bards, and Spring,

O birds, your perfect virtues bring,

Your song, your forms, your rhythmic flight,

Your manners for the heart's delight,

Nestle in hedge, or barn, or roof,

Here weave your chamber weather-proof,

Forgive our harms, and condescend

To man, as to a lubber friend,

And, generous, teach his awkward race

Courage, and probity, and grace!

Poets praise that hidden wine

Hid in milk we drew

At the barrier of Time,

When our life was new.

We had eaten fairy fruit,

We were quick from head to foot,

All the forms we looked on shone

As with diamond dews thereon.

What cared we for costly joys,

The Museum's far-fetched toys?

Gleam of sunshine on the wall

Poured a deeper cheer than all

The revels of the Carnival.

We a pine-grove did prefer

To a marble theatre,

Could with gods on mallows dine,

Nor cared for spices or for wine.

Wreaths of mist and rainbow spanned,

Arch on arch, the grimmest land;

Whistle of a woodland bird

Made the pulses dance,

Note of horn in valleys heard

Filled the region with romance.

None can tell how sweet,

How virtuous, the morning air;

Every accent vibrates well;

Not alone the wood-bird's call,

Or shouting boys that chase their ball,

Pass the height of minstrel skill,

But the ploughman's thoughtless cry,

Lowing oxen, sheep that bleat,

And the joiner's hammer-beat,

Softened are above their will.

All grating discords melt,

No dissonant note is dealt,

And though thy voice be shrill

Like rasping file on steel,

Such is the temper of the air,

Echo waits with art and care,

And will the faults of song repair.

So by remote Superior Lake,

And by resounding Mackinac,

When northern storms the forest shake,

And billows on the long beach break,

The artful Air doth separate

Note by note all sounds that grate,

Smothering in her ample breast

All but godlike words,

Reporting to the happy ear

Only purified accords.

Strangely wrought from barking waves,

Soft music daunts the Indian braves, –

Convent-chanting which the child

Hears pealing from the panther's cave

And the impenetrable wild.

One musician is sure,

His wisdom will not fail,

He has not tasted wine impure,

Nor bent to passion frail.

Age cannot cloud his memory,

Nor grief untune his voice,

Ranging down the ruled scale

From tone of joy to inward wail,

Tempering the pitch of all

In his windy cave.

He all the fables knows,

And in their causes tells, –

Knows Nature's rarest moods,

Ever on her secret broods.

The Muse of men is coy,

Oft courted will not come;

In palaces and market squares

Entreated, she is dumb;

But my minstrel knows and tells

The counsel of the gods,

Knows of Holy Book the spells,

Knows the law of Night and Day,

And the heart of girl and boy,

The tragic and the gay,

And what is writ on Table Round

Of Arthur and his peers,

What sea and land discoursing say

In sidereal years.

He renders all his lore

In numbers wild as dreams,

Modulating all extremes, –

What the spangled meadow saith

To the children who have faith;

Only to children children sing,

Only to youth will spring be spring.

Who is the Bard thus magnified?

When did he sing? and where abide?

Chief of song where poets feast

Is the wind-harp which thou seest

In the casement at my side.

Æolian harp,

How strangely wise thy strain!

Gay for youth, gay for youth,

(Sweet is art, but sweeter truth,)

In the hall at summer eve

Fate and Beauty skilled to weave.

From the eager opening strings

Rung loud and bold the song.

Who but loved the wind-harp's note?

How should not the poet doat

On its mystic tongue,

With its primeval memory,

Reporting what old minstrels said

Of Merlin locked the harp within, –

Merlin paying the pain of sin,

Pent in a dungeon made of air, –

And some attain his voice to hear,

Words of pain and cries of fear,

But pillowed all on melody,

As fits the griefs of bards to be.

And what if that all-echoing shell,

Which thus the buried Past can tell,

Should rive the Future, and reveal

What his dread folds would fain conceal?

It shares the secret of the earth,

And of the kinds that owe her birth.

Speaks not of self that mystic tone,

But of the Overgods alone:

It trembles to the cosmic breath, –

As it heareth, so it saith;

Obeying meek the primal Cause,

It is the tongue of mundane laws.

And this, at least, I dare affirm,

Since genius too has bound and term,

There is no bard in all the choir,

Not Homer's self, the poet sire,

Wise Milton's odes of pensive pleasure,

Or Shakspeare, whom no mind can measure,

Nor Collins' verse of tender pain,

Nor Byron's clarion of disdain,

Scott, the delight of generous boys,

Or Wordsworth, Pan's recording voice, –

Not one of all can put in verse,

Or to this presence could rehearse,

The sights and voices ravishing

The boy knew on the hills in spring,

When pacing through the oaks he heard

Sharp queries of the sentry-bird,

The heavy grouse's sudden whir,

The rattle of the kingfisher;

Saw bonfires of the harlot flies

In the lowland, when day dies;

Or marked, benighted and forlorn,

The first far signal-fire of morn.

These syllables that Nature spoke,

And the thoughts that in him woke,

Can adequately utter none

Save to his ear the wind-harp lone.

And best can teach its Delphian chord

How Nature to the soul is moored,

If once again that silent string,

As erst it wont, would thrill and ring.

Not long ago, at eventide,

It seemed, so listening, at my side

A window rose, and, to say sooth,

I looked forth on the fields of youth:

I saw fair boys bestriding steeds,

I knew their forms in fancy weeds,

Long, long concealed by sundering fates,

Mates of my youth, – yet not my mates,

Stronger and bolder far than I,

With grace, with genius, well attired,

And then as now from far admired,

Followed with love

They knew not of,

With passion cold and shy.

O joy, for what recoveries rare!

Renewed, I breathe Elysian air,

See youth's glad mates in earliest bloom, –

Break not my dream, obtrusive tomb!

Or teach thou, Spring! the grand recoil

Of life resurgent from the soil

Wherein was dropped the mortal spoil.

Soft on the south-wind sleeps the haze:

So on thy broad mystic van

Lie the opal-colored days,

And waft the miracle to man.

Soothsayer of the eldest gods,

Repairer of what harms betide,

Revealer of the inmost powers

Prometheus proffered, Jove denied;

Disclosing treasures more than true,

Or in what far to-morrow due;

Speaking by the tongues of flowers,

By the ten-tongued laurel speaking,

Singing by the oriole songs,

Heart of bird the man's heart seeking;

Whispering hints of treasure hid

Under Morn's unlifted lid,

Islands looming just beyond

The dim horizon's utmost bound; –

Who can, like thee, our rags upbraid,

Or taunt us with our hope decayed?

Or who like thee persuade,

Making the splendor of the air,

The morn and sparkling dew, a snare?

Or who resent

Thy genius, wiles, and blandishment?

There is no orator prevails

To beckon or persuade

Like thee the youth or maid:

Thy birds, thy songs, thy brooks, thy gales,

Thy blooms, thy kinds,

Thy echoes in the wilderness,

Soothe pain, and age, and love's distress,

Fire fainting will, and build heroic minds.

For thou, O Spring! canst renovate

All that high God did first create.

Be still his arm and architect,

Rebuild the ruin, mend defect;

Chemist to vamp old worlds with new,

Coat sea and sky with heavenlier blue,

New-tint the plumage of the birds,

And slough decay from grazing herds,

Sweep ruins from the scarped mountain,

Cleanse the torrent at the fountain,

Purge alpine air by towns defiled,

Bring to fair mother fairer child,

Not less renew the heart and brain,

Scatter the sloth, wash out the stain,

Make the aged eye sun-clear,

To parting soul bring grandeur near.

Under gentle types, my Spring

Masks the might of Nature's king,

An energy that searches thorough

From Chaos to the dawning morrow;

Into all our human plight,

The soul's pilgrimage and flight;

In city or in solitude,

Step by step, lifts bad to good,

Without halting, without rest,

Lifting Better up to Best;

Planting seeds of knowledge pure,

Through earth to ripen, through heaven endure.

## **THE ADIRONDACS**  
 _A Journal_

_Dedicated to My Fellow-Travellers in August, 1858_

Wise and polite, – and if I drew

Their several portraits, you would own

Chaucer had no such worthy crew,

Nor Boccace in Decameron.

We crossed Champlain to Keeseville with our friends,

Thence, in strong country carts, rode up the forks

Of the Ausable stream, intent to reach

The Adirondac lakes. At Martin's Beach

We chose our boats; each man a boat and guide, –

Ten men, ten guides, our company all told.

Next morn, we swept with oars the Saranac,

With skies of benediction, to Round Lake,

Where all the sacred mountains drew around us,

Taháwus, Seaward, MacIntyre, Baldhead,

And other Titans without muse or name.

Pleased with these grand companions, we glide on,

Instead of flowers, crowned with a wreath of hills,

And made our distance wider, boat from boat,

As each would hear the oracle alone.

By the bright morn the gay flotilla slid

Through files of flags that gleamed like bayonets,

Through gold-moth-haunted beds of pickerel-flower,

Through scented banks of lilies white and gold,

Where the deer feeds at night, the teal by day,

On through the Upper Saranac, and up

Père Raquette stream, to a small tortuous pass

Winding through grassy shallows in and out,

Two creeping miles of rushes, pads, and sponge,

To Follansbee Water, and the Lake of Loons.

Northward the length of Follansbee we rowed,

Under low mountains, whose unbroken ridge

Pondrous with beechen forest sloped the shore.

A pause and council: then, where near the head

On the east a bay makes inward to the land

Between two rocky arms, we climb the bank,

And in the twilight of the forest noon

Wield the first axe these echoes ever heard.

We cut young trees to make our poles and thwarts,

Barked the white spruce to weatherfend the roof,

Then struck a light, and kindled the camp-fire.

The wood was sovran with centennial trees, –

Oak, cedar, maple, poplar, beech and fir,

Linden and spruce. In strict society

Three conifers, white, pitch, and Norway pine,

Five-leaved, three-leaved, and two-leaved, grew thereby.

Our patron pine was fifteen feet in girth,

The maple eight, beneath its shapely tower.

'Welcome!' the wood god murmured through the leaves, –

'Welcome, though late, unknowing, yet known to me.'

Evening drew on; stars peeped through maple-boughs,

Which o'erhung, like a cloud, our camping fire.

Decayed millennial trunks, like moonlight flecks,

Lit with phosphoric crumbs the forest floor.

Ten scholars, wonted to lie warm and soft

In well-hung chambers daintily bestowed,

Lie here on hemlock-boughs, like Sacs and Sioux,

And greet unanimous the joyful change.

So fast will Nature acclimate her sons,

Though late returning to her pristine ways.

Off soundings, seamen do not suffer cold;

And, in the forest, delicate clerks, unbrowned,

Sleep on the fragrant brush, as on down-beds.

Up with the dawn, they fancied the light air

That circled freshly in their forest dress

Made them to boys again. Happier that they

Slipped off their pack of duties, leagues behind,

At the first mounting of the giant stairs.

No placard on these rocks warned to the polls,

No door-bell heralded a visitor,

No courier waits, no letter came or went,

Nothing was ploughed, or reaped, or bought, or sold;

The frost might glitter, it would blight no crop,

The falling rain will spoil no holiday.

We were made freemen of the forest laws,

All dressed, like Nature, fit for her own ends,

Essaying nothing she cannot perform.

In Adirondac lakes,

At morn or noon, the guide rows bareheaded:

Shoes, flannel shirt, and kersey trousers make

His brief toilette: at night, or in the rain,

He dons a surcoat which he doffs at morn:

A paddle in the right hand, or an oar,

And in the left, a gun, his needful arms.

By turns we praised the stature of our guides,

Their rival strength and suppleness, their skill

To row, to swim, to shoot, to build a camp,

To climb a lofty stem, clean without boughs

Full fifty feet, and bring the eaglet down:

Temper to face wolf, bear, or catamount,

And wit to trap or take him in his lair.

Sound, ruddy men, frolic and innocent,

In winter, lumberers; in summer, guides;

Their sinewy arms pull at the oar untired

Three times ten thousand strokes, from morn to eve.

Look to yourselves, ye polished gentlemen!

No city airs or arts pass current here.

Your rank is all reversed: let men of cloth

Bow to the stalwart churls in overalls:

_They_ are the doctors of the wilderness,

And we the low-prized laymen.

In sooth, red flannel is a saucy test

Which few can put on with impunity.

What make you, master, fumbling at the oar?

Will you catch crabs? Truth tries pretension here.

The sallow knows the basket-maker's thumb;

The oar, the guide's. Dare you accept the tasks

He shall impose, to find a spring, trap foxes,

Tell the sun's time, determine the true north,

Or stumbling on through vast self-similar woods

To thread by night the nearest way to camp?

Ask you, how went the hours?

All day we swept the lake, searched every cove,

North from Camp Maple, south to Osprey Bay,

Watching when the loud dogs should drive in deer,

Or whipping its rough surface for a trout;

Or bathers, diving from the rock at noon;

Challenging Echo by our guns and cries;

Or listening to the laughter of the loon;

Or, in the evening twilight's latest red,

Beholding the procession of the pines;

Or, later yet, beneath a lighted jack,

In the boat's bows, a silent night-hunter

Stealing with paddle to the feeding-grounds

Of the red deer, to aim at a square mist.

Hark to that muffled roar! a tree in the woods

Is fallen: but hush! it has not scared the buck

Who stands astonished at the meteor light,

Then turns to bound away, – is it too late?

Sometimes we tried our rifles at a mark,

Six rods, sixteen, twenty, or forty-five;

Sometimes our wits at sally and retort,

With laughter sudden as the crack of rifle;

Or parties scaled the near acclivities

Competing seekers of a rumored lake,

Whose unauthenticated waves we named

Lake Probability, – our carbuncle,

Long sought, not found.

Two Doctors in the camp

Dissected the slain deer, weighed the trout's brain,

Captured the lizard, salamander, shrew,

Crab, mice, snail, dragon-fly, minnow, and moth;

Insatiate skill in water or in air

Waved the scoop-net, and nothing came amiss;

The while, one leaden pot of alcohol

Gave an impartial tomb to all the kinds.

Not less the ambitious botanist sought plants,

Orchis and gentian, fern, and long whip-scirpus,

Rosy polygonum, lake-margin's pride,

Hypnum and hydnum, mushroom, sponge, and moss,

Or harebell nodding in the gorge of falls.

Above, the eagle flew, the osprey screamed,

The raven croaked, owls hooted, the woodpecker

Loud hammered, and the heron rose in the swamp.

As water poured through hollows of the hills

To feed this wealth of lakes and rivulets,

So Nature shed all beauty lavishly

From her redundant horn.

Lords of this realm,

Bounded by dawn and sunset, and the day

Rounded by hours where each outdid the last

In miracles of pomp, we must be proud,

As if associates of the sylvan gods.

We seemed the dwellers of the zodiac,

So pure the Alpine element we breathed,

So light, so lofty pictures came and went.

We trode on air, contemned the distant town,

Its timorous ways, big trifles, and we planned

That we should build, hard-by, a spacious lodge,

And how we should come hither with our sons,

Hereafter, – willing they, and more adroit.

Hard fare, hard bed, and comic misery, –

The midge, the blue-fly, and the mosquito

Painted our necks, hands, ankles, with red bands:

But, on the second day, we heed them not,

Nay, we saluted them Auxiliaries,

Whom earlier we had chid with spiteful names.

For who defends our leafy tabernacle

From bold intrusion of the travelling crowd, –

Who but the midge, mosquito, and the fly,

Which past endurance sting the tender cit,

But which we learn to scatter with a smudge,

Or baffle by a veil, or slight by scorn?

Our foaming ale we drunk from hunters' pans,

Ale, and a sup of wine. Our steward gave

Venison and trout, potatoes, beans, wheat-bread;

All ate like abbots, and, if any missed

Their wonted convenance, cheerly hid the loss

With hunters' appetite and peals of mirth.

And Stillman, our guides' guide, and Commodore,

Crusoe, Crusader, Pius Æneas, said aloud,

'Chronic dyspepsia never came from eating

Food indigestible': – then murmured some,

Others applauded him who spoke the truth.

Nor doubt but visitings of graver thought

Checked in these souls the turbulent heyday

'Mid all the hints and glories of the home.

For who can tell what sudden privacies

Were sought and found, amid the hue and cry

Of scholars furloughed from their tasks, and let

Into this Oreads' fended Paradise,

As chapels in the city's thoroughfares,

Whither gaunt Labor slips to wipe his brow,

And meditate a moment on Heaven's rest.

Judge with what sweet surprises Nature spoke

To each apart, lifting her lovely shows

To spiritual lessons pointed home.

And as through dreams in watches of the night,

So through all creatures in their form and ways

Some mystic hint accosts the vigilant

Not clearly voiced, but waking a new sense

Inviting to new knowledge, one with old.

Hark to that petulant chirp! what ails the warbler?

Mark his capricious ways to draw the eye.

Now soar again. What wilt thou, restless bird,

Seeking in that chaste blue a bluer light,

Thirsting in that pure for a purer sky?

And presently the sky is changed; O world!

What pictures and what harmonies are thine!

The clouds are rich and dark, the air serene,

So like the soul of me, what if 't were me?

A melancholy better than all mirth.

Comes the sweet sadness at the retrospect,

Or at the foresight of obscurer years?

Like yon slow-sailing cloudy promontory,

Whereon the purple iris dwells in beauty

Superior to all its gaudy skirts.

And, that no day of life may lack romance,

The spiritual stars rise nightly, shedding down

A private beam into each several heart.

Daily the bending skies solicit man,

The seasons chariot him from this exile,

The rainbow hours bedeck his glowing chair,

The storm-winds urge the heavy weeks along,

Suns haste to set, that so remoter lights

Beckon the wanderer to his vaster home.

With a vermilion pencil mark the day

When of our little fleet three cruising skiffs

Entering Big Tupper, bound for the foaming Falls

Of loud Bog River, suddenly confront

Two of our mates returning with swift oars.

One held a printed journal waving high

Caught from a late-arriving traveller,

Big with great news, and shouted the report

For which the world had waited, now firm fact,

Of the wire-cable laid beneath the sea,

And landed on our coast, and pulsating

With ductile fire. Loud, exulting cries

From boat to boat, and to the echoes round,

Greet the glad miracle. Thought's new-found path

Shall supplement henceforth all trodden ways,

Match God's equator with a zone of art,

And lift man's public action to a height

Worthy the enormous cloud of witnesses,

When linked hemispheres attest his deed.

We have few moments in the longest life

Of such delight and wonder as there grew, –

Nor yet unsuited to that solitude:

A burst of joy, as if we told the fact

To ears intelligent; as if gray rock

And cedar grove and cliff and lake should know

This feat of wit, this triumph of mankind;

As if we men were talking in a vein

Of sympathy so large, that ours was theirs,

And a prime end of the most subtle element

Were fairly reached at last. Wake, echoing caves!

Bend nearer, faint day-moon! Yon thundertops,

Let them hear well! 't is theirs as much as ours.

A spasm throbbing through the pedestals

Of Alp and Andes, isle and continent,

Urging astonished Chaos with a thrill

To be a brain, or serve the brain of man.

The lightning has run masterless too long;

He must to school, and learn his verb and noun,

And teach his nimbleness to earn his wage,

Spelling with guided tongue man's messages

Shot through the weltering pit of the salt sea.

And yet I marked, even in the manly joy

Of our great-hearted Doctor in his boat,

(Perchance I erred,) a shade of discontent;

Or was it for mankind a generous shame,

As of a luck not quite legitimate,

Since fortune snatched from wit the lion's part?

Was it a college pique of town and gown,

As one within whose memory it burned

That not academicians, but some lout,

Found ten years since the Californian gold?

And now, again, a hungry company

Of traders, led by corporate sons of trade,

Perversely borrowing from the shop the tools

Of science, not from the philosophers,

Had won the brightest laurel of all time.

'T was always thus, and will be; hand and head

Are ever rivals: but, though this be swift,

The other slow, – this the Prometheus,

And that the Jove, – yet, howsoever hid,

It was from Jove the other stole his fire,

And, without Jove, the good had never been.

It is not Iroquois or cannibals,

But ever the free race with front sublime,

And these instructed by their wisest too,

Who do the feat, and lift humanity.

Let not him mourn who best entitled was,

Nay, mourn not one: let him exult,

Yea, plant the tree that bears best apples, plant,

And water it with wine, nor watch askance

Whether thy sons or strangers eat the fruit:

Enough that mankind eat, and are refreshed.

We flee away from cities, but we bring

The best of cities with us, these learned classifiers,

Men knowing what they seek, armed eyes of experts.

We praise the guide, we praise the forest life;

But will we sacrifice our dear-bought lore

Of books and arts and trained experiment,

Or count the Sioux a match for Agassiz?

O no, not we! Witness the shout that shook

Wild Tupper Lake; witness the mute all-hail

The joyful traveller gives, when on the verge

Of craggy Indian wilderness he hears

From a log-cabin stream Beethoven's notes

On the piano, played with master's hand.

'Well done!' he cries; 'the bear is kept at bay,

The lynx, the rattlesnake, the flood, the fire;

All the fierce enemies, ague, hunger, cold,

This thin spruce roof, this clayed log-wall,

This wild plantation will suffice to chase.

Now speed the gay celerities of art,

What in the desart was impossible

Within four walls is possible again, –

Culture and libraries, mysteries of skill,

Traditioned fame of masters, eager strife

Of keen competing youths, joined or alone

To outdo each other, and extort applause.

Mind wakes a new-born giant from her sleep.

Twirl the old wheels! Time takes fresh start again,

On for a thousand years of genius more.'

The holidays were fruitful, but must end;

One August evening had a cooler breath;

Into each mind intruding duties crept;

Under the cinders burned the fires of home;

Nay, letters found us in our paradise;

So in the gladness of the new event

We struck our camp, and left the happy hills.

The fortunate star that rose on us sank not;

The prodigal sunshine rested on the land,

The rivers gambolled onward to the sea,

And Nature, the inscrutable and mute,

Permitted on her infinite repose

Almost a smile to steal to cheer her sons,

As if one riddle of the Sphinx were guessed.

## From _The Poet_

... the poet is representative. He stands among partial men for the complete man, and apprises us not of his wealth, but of the common-wealth. The young man reveres men of genius, because, to speak truly, they are more himself than he is. They receive of the soul as he also receives, but they more. Nature enhances her beauty, to the eye of loving men, from their belief that the poet is beholding her shows at the same time. He is isolated among his contemporaries, by truth and by his art, but with this consolation in his pursuits, that they will draw all men sooner or later. For all men live by truth, and stand in need of expression. In love, in art, in avarice, in politics, in labour, in games, we study to utter our painful secret. The man is only half himself, the other half is his expression.

Notwithstanding this necessity to be published, adequate expression is rare. I know not how it is that we need an interpreter; but the great majority of men seem to be minors, who have not yet come into possession of their own, or mutes, who cannot report the conversation they have had with nature. There is no man who does not anticipate a supersensual utility in the sun, and stars, earth, and water. These stand and wait to render him a peculiar service. But there is some obstruction, or some excess of phlegm in our constitution, which does not suffer them to yield the due effect. The impressions of nature fall on us too feebly to make us artists. Every touch should thrill. Every man should be so much an artist, that he could report in conversation what had befallen him. Yet, in our experience, the rays or appulses have sufficient force to arrive at the senses, but not enough to reach the quick, and compel the reproduction of themselves in speech. The poet is the person in whom these powers are in balance, the man without impediment, who sees and handles that which others dream of, traverses the whole scale of experience, and is representative of man, in virtue of being the largest power to receive and to impart.

For the Universe has three children, born at one time, which reappear, under different names, in every system of thought, whether they be called cause, operation, and effect; or, more poetically, Jove, Pluto, Neptune; or, theologically, the Father, the Spirit, and the Son; but which we will call here, the Knower, the Doer, and the Sayer. These stand respectively for the love of truth, the love of good, and the love of beauty. These three are equal. Each is that which he is essentially, so that he cannot be surmounted or analyzed, and each of these three has the power of the others latent in him, and his own patent.

The poet is the sayer, the namer, and represents beauty. He is a sovereign, and stands on the centre. For the world is not painted, or adorned, but is from the beginning beautiful; and God has not made some beautiful things, but Beauty is the creator of the universe. Therefore the poet is not any permissive potentate, but is emperor in his own right. Criticism is infested with a cant of materialism, which assumes that manual skill and activity is the first merit of all men, and disparages such as say and do not, overlooking the fact, that some men namely, poets, are natural sayers, sent into the world to the end of expression, and it confounds them with those whose province is action, but who quit it to imitate the sayers. But Homer's words are as costly and admirable to Homer, as Agamemnon's victories are to Agamemnon. The poet does not wait for the hero or the sage, but, as they act and think primarily, so he writes primarily what will and must be spoken, reckoning the others, though primaries also, yet, in respect to him, secondaries and servants; as sitters or models in the studio of a painter, or as assistants who bring building materials to an architect.

For poetry was all written before time was, and whenever we are so finely organized that we can penetrate into that region where the air is music, we hear those primal warblings, and attempt to write them down, but we lose ever and anon a word, or a verse, and substitute something of our own, and thus miswrite the poem. The men of more delicate ear write down these cadences more faithfully, and these transcripts, though imperfect, become the songs of the nations. For nature is as truly beautiful as it is good, or as it is reasonable, and must as much appear, as it must be done, or be known. Words and deeds are quite indifferent modes of the divine energy. Words are also actions, and actions are a kind of words.

The sign and credentials of the poet are, that he announces that which no man foretold. He is the true and only doctor; he knows and tells; he is the only teller of news, for he was present and privy to the appearance which he describes. He is a beholder of ideas, and an utterer of the necessary and causal. We do not speak now of men of poetical talents, or of industry and skill in metre, but of the true poet. I took part in a conversation the other day, concerning a recent writer of lyrics, a man of subtle mind, whose head appeared to be a music-box of delicate tunes and rhythms, and whose skill, and command of language, we could not sufficiently praise. But when the question arose, whether he were not only a lyrist, but a poet, we were obliged to confess that he is plainly a contemporary, not an eternal man. He does not stand out of our low limitations, like a Chimborazo under the line, running up from the torrid base through all the climates of the globe, with belts of the herbage of every latitude on its high and mottled sides; but this genuis is the landscape garden of a modern house, adorned with fountains and statues, with well-bred men and women standing and sitting in the walks and terraces. We hear, through all the varied music, the ground-tone of conventional life. Our poets are men of talents who sing, and not the children of music. The argument is secondary, the finish of the verses is primary.

For it is not metres, but a metre-making argument, that makes a poem, – a thought so passionate and alive, that, like the spirit of a plant or an animal, it has an architecture of its own, and adorns nature with a new thing. The thought and the form are equal in the order of time, but in the order of genesis the thought is prior to the form. The poet has a new thought: he has a whole new experience to unfold; he will tell us how it was with him, and all men will be the richer in his fortune...

... Every man is so far a poet as to be susceptible of these enchantments of nature: for all men have the thoughts of which the universe is the celebration. I find that the fascination resides in the symbol. Who loves nature? Who does not? Is it only poets, and men of leisure and cultivation, who live with her? No; but also hunters, farmers, grooms, and butchers, though they express their affection in their choice of life, and not in their choice of words. The writer wonders what the coachman or the hunter values in riding, in horses, and dogs. It is not superficial qualities. When you talk with him, he holds these at as slight a rate as you. His worship is sympathetic: he has no definitions, but he is commanded in nature, by the living power which he feels to be there present. No imitation, or playing of these things, would content him; he loves the earnest of the north-wind, of rain, of stone, and wood, and iron. A beauty not explicable is dearer than a beauty which we can see to the end of. It is nature the symbol, nature certifying the supernatural, body overflowed by life, which he worships with coarse, but sincere rites.

The inwardness, and mystery, of this attachment, drives men of every class to the use of emblems. The schools of poets, and philosophers, are not more intoxicated with their symbols, than the populace with theirs. In our political parties, compute the power of badges and emblems. See the great ball which they roll from Baltimore to Bunker hill! In the political processions, Lowell goes in a loom, and Lynn in a shoe, and Salem in a ship. Witness the cider-barrel, the log-cabin, the hickory-stick, the palmetto, and all the cognizances of party. See the power of national emblems. Some stars, lilies, leopards, a crescent, a lion, an eagle, or other figure, which came into credit God knows how, on an old rag of bunting, blowing in the wind, on a fort, at the ends of the earth, shall make the blood tingle under the rudest, or the most conventional exterior. The people fancy they hate poetry, and they are all poets and mystics!

Beyond this universality of the symbolic language, we are apprised of the divineness of this superior use of things, (whereby the world is a temple, whose walls are covered with emblems, pictures, and commandments of the Deity,) in this, that there is no fact in nature which does not carry the whole sense of nature; and the distinctions which we make in events, and in affairs, of low and high, honest and base, disappear when nature is used as a symbol. Thought makes every thing fit for use. The vocabulary of an omniscient man would embrace words and images excluded from polite conversation. What would be base, or even obscene, to the obscene, becomes illustrious, spoken in a new connection of thought. The piety of the Hebrew prophets purges their grossness. The circumcision is an example of the power of poetry to raise the low and offensive. Small and mean things serve as well as great symbols. The meaner the type by which a law is expressed, the more pungent it is, and the more lasting in the memories of men: just as we choose the smallest box, or case, in which any needful utensil can be carried. Bare lists of words are found suggestive to an imaginative and excited mind; as it is related of Lord Chatham, that he was accustomed to read in Baily's Dictionary when he was preparing to speak in Parliament. The poorest experience is rich enough for all the purposes of expressing thought. Why covet a knowledge of new facts? Day and night, house and garden, a few books, a few actions, serve us as well as would all trades and all spectacles. We are far from having exhausted the significance of the few symbols we use. We can come to use them yet with a terrible simplicity. It does not need that a poem should be long. Every word was once a poem. Every new relation is a new word. Also, we use defects and deformities to a sacred purpose, – so expressing our sense that the evils of the world are such only to the evil eye. In the old mythology, mythologists observe, defects are ascribed to divine natures, as lameness to Vulcan, blindness to Cupid, and the like, to signify exuberances.

It is dislocation and detachment from the life of God that makes things ugly, and the poet, who re-attaches things to nature and the Whole, – re-attaching even artificial things, and violations of nature, to nature, by a deeper insight, – disposes very easily of the most disagreeable facts. Readers of poetry see the factory-village, and the railway, and fancy that the poetry of the landscape is broken up by these, – for these works of art are not yet consecrated in their reading; but the poet sees them fall within the great order not less than the hive, or the spider's geometrical web. Nature adopts them very fast into her vital circles, and the gliding train of cars she loves like her own. Besides, in a centred mind, it signifies nothing how many mechanical inventions you exhibit. Though you add millions, and never so surprising, the fact of mechanics has not gained a grain's weight. The spiritual fact remains unalterable, by many or by few particulars; as no mountain is of any appreciable height to break the curve of the sphere...

The world being thus put under the mind for verb and noun, the poet is he who can articulate it. For, though life is great, and fascinates, and absorbs, – and though all men are intelligent of the symbols through which it is named, – yet they cannot originally use them. We are symbols, and inhabit symbols; workmen, work, and tools, words and things, birth and death, all are emblems; but we sympathize with the symbols, and, being infatuated with the economical uses of things, we do not know that they are thoughts. The poet, by an ulterior intellectual perception, gives them a power which makes their old use forgotten, and puts eyes, and a tongue, into every dumb and inanimate object. He perceives the independence of the thought on the symbol, – the stability of the thought, the accidency and fugitiveness of the symbol. As the eyes of Lyncæus were said to see through the earth, so the poet turns the world to glass, and shows us all things in their right series and procession. For, through that better perception, he stands one step nearer to things, and sees the flowing or metamorphosis; perceives that thought is multiform; that within the form of every creature is a force impelling it to ascend into a higher form: and, following with his eyes the life, uses the forms which express that life, and so his speech flows with the flowing of nature. All the facts of the animal economy, sex, nutriment, gestation, birth, growth, are symbols of the passage of the world into the soul of man, to suffer there a change, and reappear a new and higher fact. He uses forms according to the life, and not according to the form. This is true science. The poet alone knows astronomy, chemistry, vegetation, and animation; for he does not stop at these facts, but employs them as signs. He knows why the field of space was strown with these flowers we call suns and moons and stars; why the great deep is adorned with animals, with men, and gods; for, in every word he speaks he rides on them as the horses of thought.

By virtue of this science the poet is the Namer or Language-maker, naming things sometimes after their appearance, sometimes after their essence, and giving to every one its own name and not another's, thereby rejoicing the intellect, which delights in detachment or boundary. The poets made all the words, and therefore language is the archives of history, and, if we must say it, a sort of tomb of the muses. For, though the origin of most of our words is forgotten, each word was at first a stroke of genius, and obtained currency, because for the moment it symbolized the world to the first speaker and to the hearer. The etymologist finds the deadest word to have been once a brilliant picture. Language is fossil poetry. As the limestone of the continent consists of infinite masses of the shells of animalcules, so language is made up of images, or tropes, which now, in their secondary use, have long ceased to remind us of their poetic origin. But the poet names the thing because he sees it, or comes one step nearer to it than any other. This expression, or naming, is not art, but a second nature, grown out of the first, as a leaf out of a tree. What we call nature, is a certain self-regulated motion or change; and nature does all things by her own hands, and does not leave another to baptize her, but baptizes herself; and this through the metamorphosis again...

It is a secret which every intellectual man quickly learns, that, beyond the energy of his possessed and conscious intellect, he is capable of a new energy (as of an intellect doubled on itself), by abandonment to the nature of things; that, beside his privacy of power as an individual man, there is a great public power, on which he can draw, by unlocking, at all risks, his human doors, and suffering the ethereal tides to roll and circulate through him: then he is caught up into the life of the Universe, his speech is thunder, his thought is law, and his words are universally intelligible as the plants and animals. The poet knows that he speaks adequately, then only when he speaks somewhat wildly, or, 'with the flower of the mind;' not with the intellect, used as an organ, but with the intellect released from all service, and suffered to take its direction from its celestial life; or, as the ancients were wont to express themselves, not with intellect alone, but with the intellect inebriated by nectar. As the traveller who has lost his way, throws his reins on his horse's neck, and trusts to the instinct of the animal to find his road, so must we do with the divine animal who carries us through the world. For if in any manner we can stimulate this instinct, new passages are opened for us into nature, the mind flows into and through things hardest and highest, and the metamorphosis is possible...

If the imagination intoxicates the poet, it is not inactive in other men. The metamorphosis excites in the beholder an emotion of joy. The use of symbols has a certain power of emancipation and exhilaration for all men. We seem to be touched by a wand, which makes us dance and run about happily, like children. We are like persons who come out of a cave or cellar into the open air. This is the effect on us of tropes, fables, oracles, and all poetic forms...

The poets are thus liberating gods. The ancient British bards had for the title of their order, 'Those who are free throughout the world.' They are free, and they make free. An imaginative book renders us much more service at first, by stimulating us through its tropes, than afterward, when we arrive at the precise sense of the author. I think nothing is of any value in books, excepting the transcendental and extraordinary. If a man is inflamed and carried away by his thought, to that degree that he forgets the authors and the public, and heeds only this one dream, which holds him like an insanity, let me read his paper, and you may have all the arguments, and histories, and criticism. All the value which attaches to Pythagoras, Paracelsus, Cornelius Agrippa, Cardan, Kepler, Swedenborg, Schelling, Oken, or any other who introduces questionable facts into his cosmogony, as angels, devils, magic, astrology, palmistry, mesmerism, and so on, is the certificate we have of departure from routine, and that here is a new witness. That also is the best success in conversation, the magic of liberty, which puts the world, like a ball, in our hands. How cheap even the liberty then seems; how mean to study, when an emotion communicates to the intellect the power to sap and upheave nature: how great the perspective! nations, times, systems, enter and disappear, like threads in tapestry of large figure and many colors; dream delivers us to dream, and, while the drunkenness lasts, we will sell our bed, our philosophy, our religion, in our opulence...

# Source Metadata

- Domain: philosophy
- Context ID: 5121ccb5e27cf399045b2578ffe900b4
- Document ID: 420b63d0b56db314222dbcc2dd283db9
- Approx. Length: 46080 characters