# Context

Item 1A. Risk Factors
Our business has significant risks. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this Report, including our financial statements and the related notes. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could be materially and adversely affected.
Summary
Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. Additional discussion of the risks we face can be found in this Item 1A, beginning under the heading “Risk Related to our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital”. Such risks should be carefully considered, together with other information in this Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, before making an investment decision regarding our common stock.
•We have incurred significant losses since our inception and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future.
•We will require substantial additional capital to fund our operations and if we fail to obtain necessary financing we will not be able to complete the development and commercialization of our product candidates.
•We depend heavily on the success of our lead product candidate, ridinilazole, which we are developing for the treatment of CDI. If we are unable to commercialize ridinilazole, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.
•Our reliance on government funding for ridinilazole adds uncertainty to our research and commercialization efforts, and may impose requirements that increase the costs of commercialization and production of product candidates developed with the support of government-funded programs in which we participate.
•The novel coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) and the response to it have led to many clinical trial sites slowing or stopping enrollment into our Phase 3 clinical trials, which have delayed our efforts to obtain approval for ridinilazole and consequently may delay our receipt of necessary marketing approvals.
•We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before us or more successfully than we do.
•Our ability to commercialize any of our product candidates is subject to substantial regulatory and legislative uncertainty, including as to pricing, reimbursement practices or other healthcare initiatives which could harm our business.
•We can provide no assurance that our clinical product candidates will obtain regulatory approval or that the results of clinical studies will be favorable.
•Drug discovery and development is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process that is fraught with risk and a high rate of failure.
•We depend on our senior management and key personnel for our success, and if we fail to retain such personnel we may experience substantial harm to our business.
•We rely upon patents to protect our technology. We may be unable to protect our intellectual property rights and we may be liable for infringing the intellectual property rights of others.
•We depend on collaborations with third parties for the development and commercialization of some of our product candidates. If those collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of these product candidates.
•We may face costly legal claims, in particular related to product liability and intellectual property infringement.
•Our Chief Executive Officer owns more than a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of our common stock, and as a result investors may have limited ability to affect either the corporate governance of the Company or the taking of certain major decisions.
•Substantial future sales of our shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of the shares to decline significantly, even if our business is doing well.
•The prices of our shares of common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders.
•We are subject to certain U.S., U.K. and foreign anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, export control, sanctions and other trade laws and regulations. We can face serious consequences for violations.
Risks Related to our Financial Position and Need for Additional Capital
We have incurred significant losses since our inception. We expect to incur losses for at least the next several years and may never generate profits from operations or maintain profitability.
Since inception, we have incurred significant operating losses. Our net loss was approximately $52.7 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, our net loss was approximately $29.1 million for the eleven months ended December 31, 2019, and our net income was approximately $10.9 million for the year ended January 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $210.9 million. The net income recorded for the year ended January 31, 2019, was due to the recognition
of all remaining deferred revenue related to our license and collaboration agreement with Sarepta Therapeutics, Inc., or Sarepta, following our decision to discontinue the development of ezutromid in June 2018. This recognition of deferred revenues did not impact our cash flows. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through issuances of our common stock, and, prior to the domestication, issuances of Summit Therapeutics plc’s ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares, or ADSs, payments to us under our now-terminated license and collaboration agreement with Sarepta, payments to us under our license and commercialization agreement with Eurofarma Laboratórios SA, or Eurofarma, and development funding and other assistance from government entities, philanthropic, non-government and not for profit organizations and patient advocacy groups for our product candidates. We have devoted substantially all of our efforts to research and development, including clinical trials. We have not completed development of any drugs. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses and increasing operating losses for at least the next several years. The net losses we incur may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year. We anticipate that our expenses will increase substantially in connection with conducting clinical trials for our lead product candidate, ridinilazole (formerly SMT19969), for the treatment of patients with Clostridioides difficile infection (formerly known as Clostridium difficile infection), or CDI, and seeking marketing approval for ridinilazole in the United States, as well as other geographies. In addition, if we obtain marketing approval of ridinilazole in the United States or other jurisdictions where we retain commercial rights, we expect to incur significant sales, marketing, distribution and outsourced manufacturing expenses, as well as ongoing research and development expenses.
In addition, our expenses will increase if and as we:
•continue the research and development of ridinilazole, as well as our early-stage programs targeting infections caused by Enterobacteriaceae;
•seek to identify and develop additional product candidates, including through our bacterial genetics-based discovery and development platform, which we refer to as our Discuva Platform, for discovering and developing new mechanism antibiotics;
•seek marketing approvals for any product candidates that successfully complete clinical development;
•ultimately establish a sales, marketing and distribution infrastructure in jurisdictions where we have retained commercialization rights and scale up external manufacturing capabilities to commercialize any product candidates for which we receive marketing approval;
•acquire or in-license other product candidates and technology;
•maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio;
•hire additional clinical, regulatory and scientific personnel;
•expand our physical presence; and
•add operational, financial and management information systems and personnel, including personnel to support our product development and planned future commercialization efforts.
Our ability to generate income from operations and remain profitable depends on our ability to successfully develop and commercialize drugs that generate significant revenue. Based on our current plans, we do not expect to generate significant product sales revenue unless and until we obtain marketing approval for, and commercialize, ridinilazole for the treatment of CDI or any other product candidates we develop. This will require us to be successful in a range of challenging activities, including:
•successfully initiating and completing clinical trials of ridinilazole for the treatment of CDI and any other product candidates we develop;
•obtaining approval to market ridinilazole for the treatment of CDI and any other product candidates we develop;
•protecting our rights to our intellectual property portfolio related to ridinilazole and any other product candidates we develop;
•contracting for the manufacture of clinical and commercial quantities of ridinilazole and any other product candidates we develop;
•negotiating and securing adequate reimbursement from third-party payors for ridinilazole and any other product candidates we develop; and
•establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities to effectively market and sell ridinilazole and any other product candidates we develop in the United States, as well as other geographies.
We may never succeed in these activities and, even if we do, may never generate revenues that are significant enough to generate income from operations. Even if we do generate income from operations, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to generate income from operations and remain profitable would decrease the value of our company and could impair our ability to raise capital, expand our business, maintain our research and development efforts, diversify our product offerings or continue our operations. A decline in the value of our company could also cause you to lose all or part of your investment.
Our limited operating history may make it difficult for you to evaluate the success of our business to date and to assess our future viability.
Our operations to date have been limited to organizing and staffing our company, developing and securing our technology, raising capital and undertaking preclinical studies and clinical trials of our product candidates. We have not yet demonstrated our ability to successfully complete development of any product candidates, obtain marketing approvals, manufacture a commercial scale product, or arrange for a third party to do so on our behalf, or conduct sales and marketing activities necessary for successful product commercialization. Consequently, any predictions you make about our future success or viability may not be as accurate as they could be if we had a longer operating history.
Assuming we obtain marketing approval for any of our product candidates, we will need to transition from a company with a research and development focus to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and may not be successful in such a transition.
We will need substantial additional funding. If we are unable to raise capital when needed, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts.
We expect our research and development expenses to increase substantially in connection with our ongoing activities, particularly as we initiate and continue clinical trials of ridinilazole for the treatment of CDI, continue our research activities and initiate preclinical programs for other product candidates. In addition, if we obtain marketing approval for ridinilazole where we retain commercial rights or any other product candidates we develop, we expect to incur significant commercialization expenses related to product sales, marketing, distribution and manufacturing. Accordingly, we will need to obtain substantial additional funding in connection with our continuing operations. If we are unable to raise capital when needed or on attractive terms, we could be forced to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or any future commercialization efforts.
We believe that the proceeds of $55.0 million received in March 2021 from Mr. Robert W. Duggan, our Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and primary stockholder in exchange for the issuance of an unsecured promissory note combined with our existing cash resources, funding agreements and research and development tax credits receivable, will be sufficient to enable us to fund our current operating plans until the second quarter of 2022. While these capital resources have allowed us to conduct our two Phase 3 clinical trials of ridinilazole, we do not expect to be able to complete all activities associated with these trials without additional capital. Our failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We have based the foregoing estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our capital resources sooner than we currently expect. This estimate assumes, among other things, that we do not obtain any additional funding through grants and clinical trial support or through new collaboration arrangements. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including:
•the progress, costs and results of clinical trials of ridinilazole for CDI;
•the number and development requirements of other product candidates that we pursue;
•the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of ridinilazole and other product candidates we develop;
•the costs and timing of commercialization activities, including product sales, marketing, distribution and manufacturing, for any of our product candidates that receive marketing approval;
•subject to receipt of marketing approval, revenue received from commercial sales of ridinilazole or any other product candidates;
•the costs and timing of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and protecting our intellectual property rights and defending against any intellectual property-related claims;
•our contract with BARDA and whether BARDA elects to pursue its final designated option;
•the amounts we receive from Eurofarma under our license and commercialization agreement, including for the achievement of development, commercialization and sales milestones and for product supply transfers;
•our ability to establish and maintain collaborations, licensing or other arrangements and the financial terms of such arrangements;
•the extent to which we acquire or invest in other businesses, products and technologies;
•the rate of the expansion of our physical presence;
•the extent to which we change our physical presence; and
•the impact of the novel coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) and the response to it.
Conducting preclinical testing and clinical trials is a time-consuming, expensive and uncertain process that takes years to complete, and we may never generate the necessary data or results required to obtain marketing approval and achieve product sales. In addition, our product candidates, if approved, may not achieve commercial success. Our commercial revenues, if any, will be derived from sales of products that we are not planning to have commercially available for several years, if at all. Accordingly, we will need to continue to rely on additional financing to achieve our business objectives. In addition, we may
seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations, even if we believe that we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all.
Raising additional capital may cause dilution to our investors, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish rights to our technologies or product candidates.
Until such time, if ever, as we can generate substantial product revenues, we expect to finance our cash needs through a combination of equity offerings, collaborations, strategic alliances, grants and clinical trial support from government entities, philanthropic, non-government and not for profit organizations and patient advocacy groups, debt financings, and marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements. We do not have any committed external source of funds other than the amounts we are entitled to receive from BARDA under our contract with them to fund, in part, the clinical and regulatory development of ridinilazole and from Eurofarma under our license and commercialization agreement with them. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, your ownership interest will be diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect your rights as an equity holder. Debt financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends or other distributions.
If we raise additional funds through collaborations, strategic alliances or marketing, distribution or licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies, future revenue streams, research programs or product candidates or to grant licenses on terms that may not be favorable to us. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings or other arrangements when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, reduce or terminate our product development or future commercialization efforts or grant rights to develop and market product candidates that we would otherwise prefer to develop and market ourselves.
Risks Related to the Development and Commercialization of our Product Candidates
We depend heavily on the success of our lead product candidate, ridinilazole, which we are developing for the treatment of CDI. All of our other programs are still in the preclinical or discovery stage. If we are unable to commercialize ridinilazole, or experience significant delays in doing so, our business will be materially harmed.
We have invested a significant portion of our efforts and financial resources in the development of ridinilazole for CDI, which is still in clinical development. Our ability to generate product revenues, which may not occur for several years, if ever, will depend heavily on the successful development and commercialization of ridinilazole. The success of this product candidate will depend on a number of factors, including the following:
•successful completion of clinical development;
•receipt of marketing approvals from applicable regulatory authorities;
•establishing commercial manufacturing arrangements with third-party manufacturers;
•obtaining and maintaining patent and trade secret protection and regulatory exclusivity;
•protecting our rights in our intellectual property portfolio;
•establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities;
•launching commercial sales of ridinilazole, if and when approved, whether alone or in collaboration with others;
•acceptance of ridinilazole, if and when approved, by patients, the medical community and third-party payors;
•effectively competing with other therapies; and
•maintaining a continued acceptable safety profile of ridinilazole, following approval.
If we do not achieve one or more of these factors in a timely manner or at all, we could experience significant delays or an inability to successfully commercialize ridinilazole, which would materially harm our business.
If clinical trials of our product candidates fail to demonstrate safety and efficacy to the satisfaction of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, or the European Medicines Agency, or the EMA, or do not otherwise produce favorable results, we may incur additional costs or experience delays in completing, or ultimately be unable to complete, the development and commercialization of ridinilazole or any other product candidate.
In connection with obtaining marketing approval from regulatory authorities for the sale of any product candidate, we must complete preclinical development and then conduct extensive clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates in humans. Clinical testing is expensive, difficult to design and implement, can take many years to complete and is inherently uncertain as to outcome. A failure of one or more clinical trials can occur at any stage of testing. The outcome of preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of the success of later clinical trials, and interim results of a clinical trial do not necessarily predict final results. In particular, due to the small number of patients in our early clinical trials, results from such trials may not be predictive of the outcome of later clinical trials. The design of a clinical trial can determine whether its results will support approval of a product, and flaws in the design of a clinical trial may not become apparent until
the clinical trial is well advanced or completed. We have limited experience in designing clinical trials and may be unable to design and execute a clinical trial to support marketing approval. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data are often susceptible to varying interpretations and analyses, and many companies that have believed their product candidates performed satisfactorily in preclinical studies and clinical trials have nonetheless failed to obtain marketing approval of their products.
For example, in June 2018, we announced that our Phase 2 clinical trial of ezutromid, our then-lead utrophin modulator for the treatment of the neuromuscular disease Duchenne muscular dystrophy, or DMD, which we referred to as PhaseOut DMD, failed to meet its primary and secondary endpoints. PhaseOut DMD was a 48-week open label clinical trial conducted at trial sites in the United States and the United Kingdom. PhaseOut DMD enrolled a total of 40 ambulatory boys between their fifth and tenth birthday, inclusive, who had a genetically confirmed diagnosis of DMD. The primary objective of PhaseOut DMD was to investigate changes in magnetic resonance parameters from baseline in leg muscle health. The secondary objectives of PhaseOut DMD investigated changes in utrophin expression in muscle and muscle fiber regeneration through the examination of muscle fiber biopsies taken from patients at baseline and after 24 weeks or 48 weeks of treatment with ezutromid. We reported interim 24-week data from PhaseOut DMD in January 2018, with further findings reported in February 2018, and while these data showed positive changes in some of the primary and secondary endpoint measurements after 24 weeks of treatment, we did not see these effects after 48 weeks of treatment. We announced the discontinuation of the development of ezutromid in June 2018, and we have now completed all the activities related to the close-out of the PhaseOut DMD clinical trial. Similarly, in September 2020, we discontinued our gonorrhea program based on data from preclinical studies that showed the series of antibiotics we were evaluating did not have suitable qualities for further development.
If we are required to conduct additional clinical trials or other testing of ridinilazole or any other product candidate that we develop beyond those that we contemplate, if we are unable to successfully complete our clinical trials or other testing, if the results of these clinical trials or tests are not positive or are only modestly positive or if there are safety concerns, we may:
•be delayed in obtaining marketing approval for our product candidates;
•not obtain marketing approval at all;
•obtain approval for indications or patient populations that are not as broad as we intended or desired;
•obtain approval with labeling that includes significant use or distribution restrictions or safety warnings, including boxed warnings;
•be subject to additional post-marketing testing requirements or restrictions; or
•have the product removed from the market after obtaining marketing approval.
If we experience any number of possible unforeseen events in connection with our clinical trials, potential marketing approval or commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or prevented.
We may experience numerous unforeseen events during, or as a result of, clinical trials that could delay or prevent our ability to receive marketing approval for or commercialize our product candidates, including:
•clinical trials of our product candidates may produce negative or inconclusive results, and we may decide, or regulators may require us, to conduct additional clinical trials or abandon product development programs;
•the number of patients required for clinical trials of our product candidates may be larger than we anticipate, enrollment in these clinical trials may be slower than we anticipate or participants may drop out of these clinical trials at a higher rate than we anticipate for various reasons, including due to contagious diseases or illnesses, such as the novel coronavirus, as described below;
•we may be unable to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our clinical trials to ensure adequate statistical power to detect any statistically significant treatment effects;
•our third-party contractors may fail to comply with regulatory requirements or meet their contractual obligations to us in a timely manner, or at all;
•regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees may not authorize us or our investigators to commence a clinical trial or conduct a clinical trial at a prospective trial site;
•we may have delays in reaching or fail to reach agreement on acceptable clinical trial contracts or clinical trial protocols with prospective trial sites;
•we may have to suspend or terminate clinical trials of our product candidates for various reasons, including a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;
•regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees may require that we or our investigators materially modify the terms of our clinical research in order to meet additional requirements for receiving marketing approval, including by requiring that we enlarge our trials, broaden the scope of our research, or perform studies in addition to those we currently anticipate, which may delay our ability to obtain marketing approval or impose additional costs;
•regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees may require that we or our investigators suspend or terminate clinical research for various reasons, including noncompliance with regulatory requirements or a finding that the participants are being exposed to unacceptable health risks;
•the cost of clinical trials of our product candidates may be greater than we anticipate;
•the supply or quality of our product candidates, comparator drugs or other materials necessary to conduct clinical trials of our product candidates may be insufficient or inadequate, which may occur if, for example, enrollment for our Phase 3 clinical trials were delayed and the clinical supply of ridinilazole or vancomycin manufactured for such trials was not utilized prior to its expiration and needed to be replaced, or if there were disruptions in our supply chain due to weather conditions, natural disasters or contagious diseases or illnesses, such as the novel coronavirus; and
•our product candidates may have undesirable side effects or other unexpected characteristics, causing us or our investigators, regulators, institutional review boards or independent ethics committees to suspend or terminate the clinical trials.
Due to the novel coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) and the response to it, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, patient enrollment at a slower pace at certain of our clinical trial sites than expected. As a result, we expect the results from our clinical trials to be delayed and have withdrawn our expectations regarding the timing of completion for the clinical trials.
Our product development costs will increase as we experience delays in testing or marketing approvals. We do not know whether any preclinical tests or clinical trials will begin as planned, will need to be restructured or will be completed on schedule, or at all. Significant preclinical or clinical trial delays also could shorten any periods during which we may have the
exclusive right to commercialize our product candidates or allow our competitors to bring products to market before we do and impair our ability to successfully commercialize our product candidates and may harm our business and results of operations.
The novel coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) and the response to it have led to many clinical trial sites slowing or stopping enrollment into our Phase 3 clinical trials, and as a result we expect the results from our clinical trials to be delayed, and we expect these circumstances, and potentially other, related circumstances that are unpredictable at this time, to have a material adverse effect on our business, operations and financial condition.
In December 2019, an outbreak of respiratory illness caused by a novel coronavirus, commonly referred to as COVID-19, began in Wuhan, China and has now spread worldwide. The World Health Organization has declared the outbreak a pandemic and a global public health emergency. In addition to those who have been directly affected, millions more have been affected by government efforts in the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union and around the world to slow the spread of the pandemic through quarantines, travel restrictions, heightened border scrutiny and other measures. The pandemic and measures taken in response by governments, private industry, individuals and others have also had significant direct and indirect adverse impacts on businesses and commerce as supply chains have been disrupted; facilities and production have been suspended; and demand for certain goods and services has spiked, while demand for other goods and services has decreased significantly.
The future progression of the pandemic and its effects on our business and operations are highly uncertain. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, patient enrollment at a slower pace at certain of our clinical trial sites than expected. In addition, certain of our clinical trial sites have suspended enrollment due to facility closures, quarantine, travel restrictions and other governmental restrictions. Further we are currently unable to undertake certain activities directly including clinical trial site visits and investigator meetings, with such activities being done remotely where possible. As a result, we expect the results from our clinical trials to be delayed, which we expect will have a material adverse impact on our clinical trial plans and timelines. Additionally, as a result of the slower pace of enrollment, our clinical supplies of ridinilazole and vancomycin manufactured for such trials may not be utilized prior to their expiration and may need to be replaced. While we do not currently anticipate significant interruptions in our clinical supply chain, quarantines, travel restrictions and other measures may significantly impact the ability of employees of our third-party suppliers to get to their places of work to manufacture and deliver additional clinical supplies, which could cause the results from our clinical trials to be delayed even further. For more information regarding the risks related to our clinical trials, see “If we experience any of a number of possible unforeseen events in connection with our clinical trials, potential marketing approval or commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed or prevented.”
The coronavirus pandemic continues to evolve. There may be other material adverse impacts on our business, operations and financial condition that are unpredictable at this time, including delays in the development and regulatory approval of other product candidates and difficulties in retaining qualified personnel during the pandemic and once it subsides. The extent to which the pandemic may impact our business will depend on future developments, such as the duration of the pandemic, quarantines, travel restrictions and other measures in the United States, the United Kingdom, the European Union and around the world, business closures or business disruptions, the effectiveness of vaccination efforts and other actions taken to contain the pandemic.
If we experience delays or difficulties in the enrollment of patients in our clinical trials, our receipt of necessary marketing approvals could be delayed or prevented.
We may not be able to initiate or continue clinical trials for our product candidates, if we are unable to locate and enroll a sufficient number of eligible patients to participate in these clinical trials. CDI is an acute infection that requires rapid diagnosis. For our Phase 3 clinical trials of ridinilazole, we need to identify potential patients, test them for CDI and enroll them within three days and prior to patients receiving other antibiotic treatments that may be active against CDI for greater than a 24-hour period. In addition, our competitors in CDI have ongoing clinical trials for product candidates that could be competitive with our product candidates, and patients who would otherwise be eligible for our clinical trials may instead enroll in clinical trials of our competitors’ product candidates or choose not to enroll in any clinical trials for various reasons, including due to fears of contagious diseases or illnesses, such as the novel coronavirus.
Patient enrollment is affected by other factors, including:
•severity of the disease under investigation;
•eligibility criteria for the clinical trial in question;
•perceived risks and benefits of the product candidate under study;
•competition for patients, time and resources at clinical trials sites from other investigational therapies in clinical trials that target the same patient population;
•approval of other therapies to treat the indication that is being investigated in the clinical trial;
•efforts to facilitate timely enrollment in clinical trials;
•patient referral practices of physicians;
•the ability to monitor patients adequately during and after treatment; and
•proximity and availability of clinical trial sites for prospective patients.
Due to the novel coronavirus pandemic (COVID-19) and the response to it, we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, patient enrollment at a slower pace at certain of our clinical trial sites than expected. As a result, we expect the results from our clinical trials to be delayed and have withdrawn our expectations regarding the timing of completion for the clinical trials.
Enrollment delays in our clinical trials may result in increased development costs for our product candidates, which would cause the value of our company to decline and limit our ability to obtain additional financing. Our inability to enroll a sufficient number of patients in our ongoing clinical trials of ridinilazole or any other planned clinical trials would result in significant delays, may generate a limited data set from which no meaningful conclusions could be made, or may require us to abandon one or more clinical trials altogether.
If serious adverse or inappropriate side effects are identified during the development of ridinilazole or any other product candidate, we may need to abandon or limit our development of that product candidate.
All of our product candidates are in clinical or early-stage development and their risk of failure is high. It is impossible to predict when or if any of our product candidates will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive marketing approval. If our product candidates are associated with undesirable side effects or have characteristics that are unexpected, we may need to abandon their development or limit development to certain uses or subpopulations in which the undesirable side effects or other characteristics are less prevalent, less severe or more acceptable from a risk-benefit perspective.
Although ridinilazole has generally been well tolerated at all doses tested, patients who typically are diagnosed with CDI have a number of underlying illnesses, which means it is more likely that we will see adverse events and serious adverse events being reported even if these events are later deemed to be unrelated to treatment with ridinilazole. For example, in our Phase 2 proof of concept clinical trial of ridinilazole, a total of 180 adverse events were reported for ridinilazole, although the majority of these were considered unlikely to be related to treatment with ridinilazole, and the number of ridinilazole reported adverse events was similar to patients treated with vancomycin, the comparator drug used in this clinical trial, where a total of 183 adverse events were reported. Most of the adverse events occurred in the gastrointestinal system organ class with nausea, abdominal pain, abdominal distention and vomiting the most commonly reported events for both treatment groups. Often, it is not possible to determine conclusively whether or not the product candidate being studied caused a particular adverse event. Regulatory authorities may draw different conclusions or require additional testing to confirm these determinations, if they occur. In addition, it is possible that as we test ridinilazole in a larger clinical program, illnesses, discomforts and other adverse events that were observed in earlier clinical trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by clinical trial patients.
Many compounds that initially showed promise in clinical or earlier stage testing have later been found to cause side effects or other safety issues that prevented further development of the compound. If we elect or are forced to suspend or terminate any clinical trial of our product candidates, the commercial prospects of such product candidate will be harmed and our ability to generate product revenues from such product candidate will be delayed or eliminated. Any of these occurrences could materially harm our business.
Even if ridinilazole or any other product candidate receives marketing approval, it may fail to achieve the degree of market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community necessary for commercial success.
If ridinilazole or any of our other product candidates receive marketing approval, such products may nonetheless fail to gain sufficient market acceptance by physicians, patients, third-party payors and others in the medical community. If these products do not achieve an adequate level of acceptance, we may not generate significant product revenues or revenue from collaboration agreements, including our license and commercialization agreement with Eurofarma, or any income from operations. The degree of market acceptance of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale, will depend on a number of factors, including:
•the efficacy and potential advantages compared to alternative treatments or competitive products;
•the prevalence and severity of any side effects;
•the ability to offer our product candidates for sale at competitive prices, including in the case of ridinilazole, which we expect, if approved, will compete with the antibiotics vancomycin and metronidazole, both of which are available in generic form at low prices, and fidaxomicin, and potentially other approaches to be used as an adjunctive therapy to antibiotics, such as the monoclonal antibody bezlotoxumab, vaccines or fecal biotherapy;
•convenience and ease of administration compared to alternative treatments;
•the willingness of the target patient population to try new therapies and of physicians to prescribe these therapies;
•the strength of marketing and distribution support;
•the availability of third-party coverage and adequate reimbursement;
•the timing of any such marketing approval in relation to other product approvals;
•support from patient advocacy groups; and
•any restrictions on concomitant use of other medications.
Our ability to negotiate, secure and maintain third-party coverage and reimbursement may be affected by political, economic and regulatory developments in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions.
Governments continue to impose cost containment measures, and third-party payors are increasingly challenging prices charged for medicines and examining their cost effectiveness, in addition to their safety and efficacy. These and other similar developments could significantly limit the degree of market acceptance of ridinilazole or any of our other product candidates that receive marketing approval.
If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell our product candidates, we may not be successful in commercializing ridinilazole or any other product candidate if and when such product candidates are approved.
We do not have a sales or marketing infrastructure and have no experience as a company in the sale or marketing of pharmaceutical products. To achieve commercial success for any approved product, we must either develop a sales and marketing organization or outsource these functions to third parties. If ridinilazole receives marketing approval, we intend to commercialize it in the United States with our own specialized sales force. We will rely on Eurofarma to commercialize ridinilazole in Argentina, Belize, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Dominican Republic, Uruguay and Venezuela, pursuant to the license and commercialization agreement we entered into with Eurofarma in December 2017. We are also currently exploring options to develop and commercialize this antibiotic candidate in other territories. There are risks involved with establishing our own sales and marketing capabilities and entering into arrangements with third parties to perform these services. For example, recruiting and training a sales force is expensive and time-consuming and could delay any product launch. If the commercial launch of a product candidate for which we recruit a sales force and establish marketing capabilities is delayed or does not occur for any reason, we would have prematurely or unnecessarily incurred these commercialization expenses. This may be costly, and our investment would be lost if we cannot retain or reposition our sales and marketing personnel.
Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products on our own include:
•our inability to recruit, train and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel;
•the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe any future products;
•the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and
•unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization.
If we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales and marketing services, our product revenues or the profitability of these product revenues to us are likely to be lower than if we were to market and sell any products that we develop ourselves. In addition, we may not be successful in entering into arrangements with third parties to sell and market our product candidates or may be unable to do so on terms that are acceptable to us. We likely will have little control over such
third parties, and any of them may fail to devote the necessary resources and attention to sell and market our products effectively. If we do not establish sales and marketing capabilities successfully, either on our own or in collaboration with third parties, we will not be successful in commercializing our product candidates.
We face substantial competition, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before us or more successfully than we do.
The development and commercialization of new drug products is highly competitive. We face competition with respect to our current product candidates and any products we may seek to develop or commercialize in the future from major pharmaceutical companies, specialty pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies worldwide.
Several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies have established themselves in the market for the treatment of CDI, and several additional companies are developing products for the treatment of CDI. Currently, the most commonly used treatments for CDI are the broad-spectrum antibiotics vancomycin and metronidazole, both of which are available in generic form in the United States. Generic antibiotic therapies typically are sold at lower prices than branded antibiotics and generally are preferred by managed care providers of health services. The antibiotic fidaxomicin (Dificid™ in the United States and Dificlir™ in Europe), which is marketed in the United States by Cubist Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Cubist, a wholly owned subsidiary of Merck & Co., Inc., or Merck, and in Europe by Tillotts Pharma AG, is approved for treatment of CDI in the United States and the European Union. Merck received approval from the FDA and EMA for bezlotoxumab (Zinplava™), a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of patients, in combination with an antibiotic, who have a high risk of disease recurrence. Other approaches in development for the treatment of CDI include vaccines and fecal biotherapy. For more information, see “Business-Competition” in this Report.
Potential competitors also include academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations that conduct research, seek patent protection and establish collaborative arrangements for research, development, manufacturing and commercialization. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are more effective, safer, have fewer or less severe side effects, are approved for broader indications or patient populations, or are more convenient or less expensive than any products that we develop and commercialize. Our competitors may also obtain marketing approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market.
We believe that many competitors are attempting to develop therapeutics for the target indications of our product candidates, including academic institutions, government agencies, public and private research organizations, large pharmaceutical companies and smaller more focused companies.
Many of our competitors may have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining approvals from regulatory authorities and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller and other early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to or necessary for our programs.
Even if we are able to commercialize ridinilazole or any other product candidate that we develop, the product may become subject to unfavorable pricing regulations, third-party reimbursement practices or healthcare reform initiatives, which would harm our business.
The regulations that govern marketing approvals, pricing, coverage and reimbursement for new drug products vary widely from country to country. Current and future legislation may significantly change the approval requirements in ways that could involve additional costs and cause delays in obtaining approvals. Some countries require approval of the sale price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, the pricing review period begins after marketing or product licensing approval is granted. In some foreign markets, prescription pharmaceutical pricing remains subject to continuing governmental control even after initial approval is granted. As a result, we might obtain marketing approval for a product in a particular country, but then be subject to price regulations that delay our commercial launch of the product, possibly for lengthy time periods, and negatively impact the revenues we are able to generate from the sale of the product in that country. Adverse pricing limitations may hinder our ability to recoup our investment in one or more product candidates, even if our product candidates obtain marketing approval.
Our ability to commercialize ridinilazole or any other product candidate successfully also will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and adequate reimbursement for these products and related treatments will be available from government health
administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations. Government authorities and other third-party payors, such as private health insurers and health maintenance organizations, decide which medications they will pay for and establish reimbursement levels. A primary trend in the U.S. and E.U. healthcare industries and elsewhere is cost containment.
Government authorities and other third-party payors have attempted to control costs by limiting coverage and the amount of reimbursement for particular medications. Increasingly, third-party payors are requiring that drug companies provide them with predetermined discounts from list prices and are challenging the prices charged for medical products.
For example, under Medicare, hospitals are reimbursed under an inpatient prospective payment system. This pricing methodology provides a single payment amount to hospitals based on a given diagnosis-related group. As a result, with respect to Medicare reimbursement for services in the hospital inpatient setting, hospitals could have a financial incentive to use the least expensive drugs for the treatment of CDI, generic antibiotics, which may significantly impact our ability to charge a premium for ridinilazole. We cannot be sure that coverage and reimbursement will be available for ridinilazole or any other product that we commercialize and, if coverage and reimbursement are available, the level of reimbursement. Reimbursement may impact the demand for, or the price of, any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval. In addition, third-party payors are likely to impose strict requirements for reimbursement of a higher priced drug. If reimbursement is not available or is available only to limited levels, we may not be able to successfully commercialize any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval.
There may be significant delays in obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which the drug is approved by the applicable regulatory authority. Moreover, eligibility for coverage and reimbursement does not imply that any drug will be paid for in all cases or at a rate that covers our costs, including research, development, intellectual property, manufacture, sale and distribution expenses. Interim reimbursement levels for new drugs, if applicable, may also not be sufficient to cover our costs and may not be made permanent. Reimbursement rates may vary according to the use of the drug and the clinical setting in which it is used, may be based on reimbursement levels already set for lower cost drugs, and may be incorporated into existing payments for other services. Net prices for drugs may be reduced by mandatory discounts or rebates required by government healthcare programs or private payors and by any future relaxation of laws that presently restrict imports of drugs from countries where they may be sold at lower prices than in the United States. In the United States, third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own reimbursement policies. In the European Union, reference pricing systems and other measures may lead to cost containment and reduced prices. Our inability to promptly obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement rates from both government-funded and private payors for any approved products that we develop could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, our ability to raise capital needed to commercialize products and our overall financial condition.
Governments outside the United States tend to impose strict price controls, which may adversely affect our revenues, if any.
In some countries, particularly the member states of the European Union, the pricing of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to governmental control. In these countries, pricing negotiations with governmental authorities can take considerable time after the receipt of marketing approval for a product. In addition, there can be considerable pressure by governments and other stakeholders on prices and reimbursement levels, including as part of cost containment measures. Political, economic and regulatory developments may further complicate pricing negotiations, and pricing negotiations may continue after reimbursement has been obtained. Reference pricing used by various European Union member states and parallel distribution, or arbitrage between low-priced and high-priced member states, can further reduce prices. In some countries, we may be required to conduct a clinical trial or other studies that compare the cost-effectiveness of our product candidate to other available therapies in order to obtain or maintain reimbursement or pricing approval. Publication of discounts by third-party payors or authorities may lead to further pressure on prices or reimbursement levels within the country of publication and other countries. If reimbursement of our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, our business could be adversely affected.
Product liability lawsuits against us could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to limit commercialization of any products that we may develop.
We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials and will face an even greater risk if we commercially sell any products that we may develop. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against claims that our product candidates or products caused injuries, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in:
•reduced resources of our management to pursue our business strategy;
•decreased demand for any product candidates or products that we may develop;
•injury to our reputation and significant negative media attention;
•withdrawal of clinical trial participants;
•significant costs to defend the related litigation;
•substantial monetary awards to clinical trial participants or patients;
•loss of revenue;
•increased insurance costs; and
•the inability to commercialize any products that we may develop.
We have separate product liability insurance policies that cover our product candidates and each of our clinical trials. These policies each provide coverage of up to $26.4 million in the aggregate for clinical trials, or portions thereof, conducted worldwide. The insurance policies covering our clinical trials are subject to a per claim deductible. The amount of insurance that we currently hold may not be adequate to cover all liabilities that we may incur. We will need to increase our insurance coverage when and if we begin commercializing ridinilazole or any other product candidate that receives marketing approval. Insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost or in an amount adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise.
If we fail to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we could become subject to fines or penalties or incur costs that could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.
We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures and the handling, use, storage, treatment and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes.
Our operations currently, and may in the future, involve the use of hazardous and flammable materials, including chemicals and medical and biological materials, and produce hazardous waste products. Even if we contract with third parties for the disposal of these materials and wastes, we cannot eliminate the risk of contamination or injury from these materials. In the event of contamination or injury resulting from our use of hazardous materials or disposal of hazardous wastes, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources.
Although we maintain workers’ compensation insurance to cover us for costs and expenses we may incur due to injuries to our employees resulting from the use of hazardous materials, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential liabilities. We also maintain liability insurance for some of these risks, but our policy has a coverage limit of $13.2 million per occurrence.
In addition, we may incur substantial costs in order to comply with current or future environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These current or future laws and regulations may impair our research, development or production efforts. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in substantial fines, penalties or other sanctions.
We may expend our limited resources to pursue a particular product candidate and fail to capitalize on product candidates that may be more profitable or for which there is a greater likelihood of success.
Because we have limited financial and managerial resources, we focus on specific product candidates. As a result, we may forego or delay pursuit of opportunities with other product candidates that later prove to have greater commercial potential. Our resource allocation decisions may cause us to fail to capitalize on viable commercial products or profitable market opportunities. Our spending on current and future research and development programs and product candidates may not yield any commercially viable products.
For example, in June 2018, we announced that our PhaseOut DMD clinical trial of ezutromid for DMD failed to meet its primary and secondary endpoints. We had reported interim 24-week data from PhaseOut DMD in January 2018, with further findings reported in February 2018, and while these showed positive changes in some of the primary and secondary endpoint measurements after 24 weeks of treatment, we did not see these effects after 48 weeks of treatment. We announced the discontinuation of the development of ezutromid in June 2018 and have also discontinued the development of our future generation utrophin modulators, despite our significant investment of resources into the development of our utrophin modulators for the treatment of DMD over a number of years. In addition, in September 2020, following the review of data from preclinical studies, we determined to cease work on our gonorrhea program.
We have based our research and development efforts for CDI on the antibiotic ridinilazole. Notwithstanding our large investment to date and anticipated future expenditures in proprietary technologies that we use in the discovery of product candidates for CDI and other infectious diseases, we have not yet developed, and may never successfully develop, any marketed drugs. As a result of pursuing the development of product candidates using our proprietary technologies, we may fail to develop product candidates or address indications based on other scientific approaches that may offer greater commercial potential or for which there is a greater likelihood of success. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources. These research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development.
If we do not accurately evaluate the commercial potential or target market for a particular product candidate, we may relinquish valuable rights to that product candidate through collaboration, licensing or other royalty arrangements in cases in which it would have been more advantageous for us to retain sole development and commercialization rights to such product candidate.
The anticipated benefits of any acquisition that we consummate may not be fully realized, may take longer to realize than expected or may not be realized at all.
Any acquisition we consummate will involve the integration of the operations, product candidates and technology of the acquired business with our existing operations and programs, and there are uncertainties inherent in any such integration. Unexpected difficulties in the integration process for an acquisition or the failure to retain key management personnel from an acquired business could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. In addition, any acquisitions are likely to require significant resources and management attention, including the resources and attention required to further the development of any acquired product candidates or other development programs, or the commercialization of any acquired product, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits from such an acquisition within the time period we expect, or at all. In addition, in any acquisition, the due diligence process may not identify all factors that could produce unintended or unexpected consequences for us. Undiscovered factors could cause us to incur potentially material financial liabilities and prevent us from achieving the expected benefits from the acquisition within our desired timeframe, or at all. In December 2017, we obtained a bacterial genetics-based platform, which we refer to as our Discuva Platform, for the discovery and development of new mechanism antibiotic compounds through our acquisition of Discuva Limited, or Discuva. While we expect to use the Discuva Platform to facilitate our discovery and development of new mechanism antibiotics, we may fail to do so. As a result, we may not obtain any value from our acquisition of Discuva.
The United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union could lead to increased market volatility and make it more difficult for us to do business in Europe, which could adversely impact the market price of our common stock.
On June 23, 2016, the electorate in the United Kingdom voted in favor of leaving the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit. Following protracted negotiations, the United Kingdom withdrew from the European Union on January 31, 2020. Pursuant to the formal withdrawal arrangements agreed between the United Kingdom and the European Union, European Union rules have ceased to apply following the transition period which ended December 31, 2020. However, in December 2020, the United Kingdom and the European Union agreed on a trade and cooperation agreement that will apply provisionally after the end of the transition period until it is ratified by the parties to the agreement. The United Kingdom has passed legislation giving effect to the trade and cooperation agreement, with the E.U. expected to formally adopt the agreement in early 2021. The trade and cooperation agreement provides a general framework for the post-withdrawal relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. However there remains substantial uncertainty related to the implementation of the trade and cooperation agreement and the application of its terms.
As a result of the United Kingdom’s withdrawal from the European Union, we may also face new regulatory costs and challenges that could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Lack of clarity about future U.K. laws and regulations as the United Kingdom determines which E.U.-derived laws and regulations to replace or replicate as part of a withdrawal, including financial laws and regulations, tax and free trade agreements, intellectual property rights, supply chain logistics, environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, immigration laws and employment laws, could further increase costs and depress economic activity. In addition, currency exchange rates in the pound sterling and the euro with respect to each other and the U.S. dollar have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the future trade relationship negotiations and their outcome. In the near term, there is a risk of disrupted import and export processes due to a lack of administrative processing capacity by the respective U.K. and E.U. customs agencies that may delay time-sensitive shipments and may negatively impact our clinical trial supply chain, which includes locations in both the United Kingdom and the European Union.
Recent and potential future changes to U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws could materially adversely affect our company and holders of our shares of common stock.
Recent changes in tax law may adversely affect our business or financial condition. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the TCJA, which significantly reformed the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. The TCJA, among other things, contained significant changes to corporate taxation, including a reduction of the corporate tax rate from a top marginal rate of 35% to a flat rate of 21%, the limitation of the tax deduction for net interest expense to 30% of adjusted taxable income (except for certain small businesses), the limitation of the deduction for net operating losses arising in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 to 80% of current year taxable income and elimination of net operating loss carrybacks for losses arising in taxable years ending after December 31, 2017 (though any such net operating losses may be carried forward indefinitely), the imposition of a one-time taxation of offshore earnings at reduced rates regardless of whether they are repatriated, the elimination of U.S. tax on foreign earnings (subject to certain important exceptions), the allowance of immediate deductions for certain new investments instead of deductions for depreciation expense over time, and the modification or repeal of many business deductions and credits.
As part of Congress’ response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Families First Coronavirus Response Act, or FFCR Act, was enacted on March 18, 2020, and the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act, or CARES Act, was enacted on March 27, 2020. Both contain numerous tax provisions. In particular, the CARES Act retroactively and temporarily (for taxable years beginning before January 1, 2021) suspends application of the 80%-of-income limitation on the use of net operating losses, which was enacted as part of the TCJA. It also provides that net operating losses arising in any taxable year beginning after December 31, 2017, and before January 1, 2021 are generally eligible to be carried back up to five years. The CARES Act also temporarily (for taxable years beginning in 2019 or 2020) relaxes the limitation of the tax deductibility for net interest expense by increasing the limitation from 30% to 50% of adjusted taxable income.
Regulatory guidance under the TCJA, the FFCR Act and the CARES Act is and continues to be forthcoming, and such guidance could ultimately increase or lessen impact of these laws on our business and financial condition. It is also likely that Congress will enact additional legislation in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, some of which could have an impact on our company. In addition, it is uncertain if and to what extent various states will conform to the TCJA, the FFCR Act or the CARES Act.
Future changes in tax laws, regulations and treaties, or the interpretation thereof, in addition to initiatives related to the Base Erosion and Profit Shifting, or BEPS, Project of the Organisation for Economic Co-Operation and Development, or OECD; the European Commission’s “state aid” investigations; and other developments could have an adverse effect on the taxation of international businesses, including our own. Furthermore, countries where we are subject to taxes, including the United States, evaluate their tax policies and rules on a regular basis, and we may see significant changes in legislation and regulations concerning taxation.
We are unable to predict what tax changes may be enacted in the future or what effect such changes would have on our business, but such changes could affect our effective tax rates in countries where we have operations and could have an adverse effect on our overall tax position in the future, along with increasing the complexity, burden and cost of tax compliance.
Our computer systems, or those of any collaborators or contractors or consultants, may fail or suffer security breaches, which could result in a material disruption of our product development programs.
Despite the implementation of security measures, our computer systems and those of third parties with whom we contract are vulnerable to damage from cyber-attacks, computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any system failure, accident or security breach that causes interruptions in our operations could result in a material disruption of our product development programs and business operations, in addition to possibly requiring substantial expenditures of resources to remedy. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data or applications, or inappropriate disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we may incur liabilities and the further development of our product candidates may be delayed. In addition, we may not have adequate insurance coverage to provide compensation for any losses associated with such events.
While we have not experienced any material losses relating to cyber-attacks, we have been the subject of cyber-attacks. We could be subject to risks caused by misappropriation, misuse, leakage, falsification or intentional or accidental release or loss of information maintained in the information systems and networks of our company, including personal information of our employees. In addition, outside parties may attempt to penetrate our systems or those of our vendors or fraudulently induce our employees or employees of our vendors to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our data. Like other companies, we may experience threats to our data and systems, including malicious codes and viruses, and other cyber-attacks. The number and complexity of these threats continue to increase over time. If a material breach of our security or that of our vendors occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed, we could lose business and our reputation and credibility could be damaged. We could be required to expend significant amounts of money and other resources to repair or replace information systems or networks. Although we develop and maintain systems and controls designed to prevent these events from occurring, and we have a process to identify and mitigate threats, the development and maintenance of these systems, controls and processes is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Moreover, despite our efforts, the possibility of these events occurring cannot be eliminated entirely.
We are increasingly dependent upon technology systems and data to operate our business. In particular, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to modify our business practices, including the requirement that our office-based employees work from home. As a result, we are increasingly dependent upon our technology systems to operate our business and our ability to effectively manage our business depends on the security, reliability and adequacy of our technology systems and data.
Compliance with global privacy and data security requirements could result in additional costs and liabilities to us or inhibit our ability to collect and process data globally, and the failure to comply with such requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
The regulatory framework for the collection, use, safeguarding, sharing, transfer and other processing of information worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Globally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy frameworks with which we must comply. For example, the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation 2016/679, or GDPR, and as enacted in the U.K. through the Data Protection Act 2018, imposes strict obligations on the processing of personal data, including personal health data, and the free movement of such data. The GDPR applies to any company established in the European Union as well as any company outside the European Union that processes personal data in connection with the offering of goods or services to individuals in the European Union or the monitoring of their behavior. The GDPR enhances data protection obligations for processors and controllers of personal data, including, for example, obligations relating to: processing health and other sensitive data; obtaining consent of individuals; providing notice to individuals regarding data processing activities; responding to data subject requests; taking certain measures when engaging third-party processors; notifying data subjects and regulators of data breaches; implementing safeguards to protect the security and confidentiality of personal data; and transferring personal data to countries outside the European Union, including the United States. The GDPR imposes additional obligations and risks upon our business and substantially increases the penalties to which we could be subject in the event of any non-compliance, including fines of up to €20 million or 4% of total worldwide annual turnover, whichever is higher. The GDPR also confers a private right of action on data subjects and consumer associations to lodge complaints with supervisory authorities, seek judicial remedies and obtain compensation for damages. Given the breadth and depth of changes in data protection obligations, preparing for and complying with the GDPR’s requirements has required and will continue to require significant time, resources and a review of our technologies, systems and practices, as well as those of any third-party collaborators, service providers, contractors or consultants that process or transfer personal data collected in the European Union. The GDPR and other changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personal information from our clinical trials, could require us to change our business practices or lead to government enforcement actions, private litigation or significant fines and penalties against us, reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Risks Related to our Dependence on Third Parties
Our reliance on government funding for ridinilazole adds uncertainty to our research and commercialization efforts with respect to ridinilazole.
We expect that a significant portion of the funding for the development of ridinilazole will come from our contract with BARDA. BARDA is entitled to terminate our BARDA contract for convenience at any time, in whole or in part, and there can be no assurance that our BARDA contract will not be terminated. Changes in government budgets and research priorities may result in a decreased and de-prioritized emphasis on supporting the development of antibacterial product candidates such as ridinilazole. If our BARDA contract is terminated or BARDA declines to exercise the final option for the research program, or if there is any reduction or delay in funding under our BARDA contract, we may be forced to seek alternative sources of funding, which may not be available on non-dilutive terms, terms favorable to us, or at all. If alternative sources of funding are not available, we may suspend or terminate development activities related to ridinilazole.
BARDA could decide to delay certain of our activities, and we may elect to move forward with certain activities at our own risk and without BARDA reimbursement.
Under our BARDA contract, BARDA will regularly review our ridinilazole development efforts and clinical activities. Under certain circumstances, BARDA may direct us to delay certain activities and invest additional time and resources before proceeding. If we follow such BARDA direction, we may incur delays and additional costs for which we had not planned. In addition, even if BARDA does not direct us to delay certain activities, BARDA’s review of our progress may take longer than we expect, which may result in overall program delays. Also, the costs associated with following BARDA’s direction to delay certain activities may or may not be reimbursed by BARDA under our contract. Finally, if we decide not to follow the direction provided by BARDA and instead pursue activities that we believe are in the best interest of the development of ridinilazole, we might forgo reimbursement under our BARDA contract, and BARDA could assert that we are in default of our contractual commitments, potentially leading to the termination of our contract, and possibly suspension, debarment, or exclusion from eligibility for other U.S. government contracts, funding programs and regulatory approvals.
BARDA may elect not to pursue the remaining designated option beyond the base period.
Even if BARDA does not terminate the contract, the BARDA contract does not require BARDA to provide funding beyond the amount currently obligated under the base period and three options packages of the existing contract. Our BARDA contract initially included a base period providing for reimbursement of up to $32 million and three options that, if exercised in full by
BARDA, would extend the contract until the year 2022 and increase the total potential reimbursement to $62 million. In August 2018, BARDA exercised the first of these three options with the $12 million in funding to be drawn down to specifically support drug manufacturing activities required for the submission of marketing approval applications and other regulatory activities related to ridinilazole. In June 2019, BARDA increased the total value of the funding contract to up to $63.7 million; at this time, BARDA also exercised a second option work segment worth $9.6 million. In January 2020, BARDA expanded the award by a further $8.8 million through a new option package to support a new clinical trial in adolescent patients. This increased the total value of the funding contract to up to $72.5 million and brought the total amount of committed BARDA funding to $62.4 million. However, BARDA will decide at its sole discretion whether to pursue the remaining option under the contract, and there can be no assurance that BARDA will elect to pursue the option. Changes in government budgets and research priorities may result in a decreased and de-prioritized emphasis on supporting the development of antibacterial product candidates such as ridinilazole. In such event, BARDA would have no obligation to exercise its remaining option or extend our existing contract. Any such decision by BARDA to end its support for our ridinilazole research program could materially adversely affect our business.
Our reliance on government funding for the clinical and regulatory development of ridinilazole may impose requirements that increase the costs of commercialization and production of product candidates developed with the support of these government-funded programs.
Aspects of our development programs are currently being supported, in part, with funding from BARDA. Contracts and grants awarded by the U.S. government, its agencies and its partners, including our award from BARDA, include provisions that implement the U.S. government’s rights and remedies, many of which are not typically found in commercial contracts, including, for example, powers of the government to:
•terminate agreements, in whole or in part, at any time, for any reason or no reason;
•unilaterally modify the parties’ obligations under such contracts, subject to government-determined equitable price adjustments;
•decline to exercise any option for work beyond the initial base period under multi-year contracts;
•suspend contract performance if Congressionally appropriated funding becomes unavailable;
•obtain rights to inventions and technical data made or first produced in the performance of such contracts;
•audit contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs;
•suspend or debar the contractor from receiving new contracts pending resolution of alleged violations of procurement laws or regulations in the event of wrongdoing by us;
•take actions that result in a longer development timeline than expected;
•direct the course of a development program in a manner not chosen by the government contractor;
•impose U.S. manufacturing requirements for products that embody or that are produced through the use of inventions conceived or first reduced to practice under such contracts;
•assert qualified march-in rights to grant licenses to third parties to practice contractor-owned inventions that are conceived or first reduced to practice under such contracts;
•pursue criminal or civil remedies under the False Claims Act, False Statements Act and similar remedy provisions specific to government agreements; and
•limit the government’s financial liability to amounts appropriated by the U.S. Congress on a fiscal-year basis, thereby leaving some uncertainty about the future availability of funding for a program even after it has been funded for an initial period.
We may not have the right to prohibit the U.S. government from using certain inventions and technical data funded by the government and developed by us, and we may not be able to prohibit third-party companies, including our competitors, from using those inventions and technical data in providing products and services to the U.S. government. The U.S. government generally takes the position that it has the right to royalty-free use of inventions and technical data that are developed under U.S. government contracts. While we do not believe the intellectual property rights that we have granted to the U.S. government under the BARDA agreement will impact our rights to commercialize ridinilazole, the government’s non-exclusive license to intellectual property developed under the agreement and the government’s march-in to inventions made under the agreement may allow the government, or a third party on its behalf, to more easily and/or quickly develop a product that could compete with ridinilazole.
In addition, U.S. government contracts normally contain additional requirements that may increase our costs of doing business, reduce our profits, and expose us to liability for failure to comply with these terms and conditions. These requirements include, for example:
•specialized accounting systems unique to government contracts;
•potential liability for price adjustments or recoupment of government funds after such funds have been spent;
•mandatory disclosure of credible evidence of certain contractual or statutory violations occurring in connection with the contract;
•public disclosures of certain contract information, which may enable competitors to gain insights into our research program; and
•mandatory socioeconomic compliance requirements, including labor standards, non-discrimination and affirmative action programs and environmental compliance requirements.
As an organization, we are relatively new to government contracting and the associated regulatory compliance obligations. If we fail to maintain compliance with those obligations, we may be subject to potential civil and/or criminal liability, termination of our BARDA contract, and/or suspension, debarment, or exclusion from eligibility for other U.S. government contracts, funding programs and regulatory approvals. As a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to financial audits and other reviews by the U.S. government of our costs and performance under our BARDA contract, as well as our accounting and general business practices related to our BARDA contract. Based on the results of its audits, the U.S. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs.
Laws and regulations affecting government contracts, including our BARDA contract, make it more costly and difficult for us to successfully conduct our business. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and adversely affect our business.
We must comply with numerous laws and regulations relating to the administration and performance of our government contracts, including our BARDA contract. Among the most significant government contracting regulations are:
•the Federal Acquisition Regulation, or FAR, and agency-specific regulations supplemental to the FAR, which comprehensively regulate the procurement, formation, administration and performance of government contracts;
•extensive U.S. government regulation of government-funded clinical research activities, including, for example, compliance requirements relating to protection of human and animal research subjects, restrictions on uses of human research materials, and conditions on dissemination of research results;
•business ethics and public integrity obligations, which govern areas such as conflicts of interest, the recruitment and hiring of former government employees, bribes and gratuities, and limitations on and mandatory disclosure of lobbying activities, pursuant to laws such as the Anti-Kickback Act, the Procurement Integrity Act, the False Claims Act and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and
•export control and import laws and regulations.
In addition, U.S. government agencies such as the Department of Health and Human Services and the Defense Contract Audit Agency routinely audit and investigate government contractors for compliance with applicable laws and standards. These agencies review a contractor’s performance under its contracts, cost structure and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards.
These agencies also review the adequacy of, and a contractor’s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor’s purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Any costs found to be unreasonable, unallowable under applicable reimbursement policies, or improperly allocated to a specific contract will not be paid, while such costs already paid must be refunded. Claims for costs that are expressly unallowable under applicable reimbursement policies may also be subject to administrative penalties. If we are audited and such audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including:
•termination of any government contracts, including our BARDA contract;
•suspension of payments;
•administrative sanctions, such as long-term monitoring arrangements;
•fines; and
•suspension, debarment, or exclusion from eligibility for U.S. government contracts, funding programs and regulatory approvals.
In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us, which could jeopardize our other research programs, deter research institutions from engaging with us, and cause our stock price to decrease.
We depend on collaborations with third parties for the development and commercialization of some of our product candidates. If those collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to capitalize on the market potential of these product candidates.
We have entered into a license and commercialization agreement with Eurofarma pursuant to which we granted Eurofarma rights to commercialize ridinilazole in specified countries in South America, Central America and the Caribbean. We may also
enter into additional third-party collaborations for the development and commercialization of ridinilazole in other jurisdictions. Moreover, we may seek third-party collaborators for development and commercialization of any other product candidates.
Our likely future collaborators for any marketing, distribution, development, licensing or broader collaboration arrangements include large and mid-size pharmaceutical companies, regional and national pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies. Under our license and commercialization agreement with Eurofarma we have, and under any such arrangements we enter into with any third parties in the future we will likely have, limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our collaborators dedicate to the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Our ability to generate revenues from these arrangements will depend on our collaborators’ abilities and efforts to successfully perform the functions assigned to them in these arrangements.
Our current collaborations pose, and any future collaboration likely will pose, numerous risks to us, including the following:
•collaborators have significant discretion in determining the efforts and resources that they will apply to these collaborations and may not perform their obligations as expected;
•collaborators may deemphasize or not pursue development and commercialization of our product candidates or may elect not to continue or renew development or commercialization programs based on clinical trial results, changes in the collaborators’ strategic focus, including as a result of a sale or disposition of a business unit or development function, or available funding, or external factors such as an acquisition that diverts resources or creates competing priorities;
•collaborators may delay clinical trials, provide insufficient funding for a clinical trial program, stop a clinical trial or abandon a product candidate, repeat or conduct new clinical trials or require a new formulation of a product candidate for clinical testing;
•collaborators could independently develop, or develop with third parties, products that compete directly or indirectly with our products or product candidates if the collaborators believe that competitive products are more likely to be successfully developed or can be commercialized under terms that are more economically attractive than ours;
•a collaborator with marketing and distribution rights to multiple products may not commit sufficient resources to the marketing and distribution of our product relative to other products;
•collaborators may not properly maintain or defend our intellectual property rights or may use our proprietary information in such a way as to invite litigation that could jeopardize or invalidate our intellectual property or proprietary information or expose us to potential litigation;
•collaborators may infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, which may expose us to litigation and potential liability;
•disputes may arise between the collaborator and us as to the ownership of intellectual property arising during the collaboration;
•we may grant exclusive rights to our collaborators, which would prevent us from collaborating with others;
•disputes may arise between the collaborators and us that result in the delay or termination of the research, development or commercialization of our products or product candidates or that result in costly litigation or arbitration that diverts management attention and resources; and
•collaborations may be terminated and, if terminated, may result in a need for additional capital to pursue further development or commercialization of the applicable product candidates.
For example, in 2009, we assigned certain technology relating to our historical DMD program to BioMarin. BioMarin conducted a Phase 1 clinical trial of an early formulation of ezutromid in 48 healthy adult volunteers. In this clinical trial, subjects achieved low systemic exposure of the drug and there was variability of systemic exposure across subjects. Following this clinical trial of an early formulation of ezutromid, BioMarin elected not to continue development of our assigned technology, citing pharmaceutical and pharmacokinetic challenges. In public statements, BioMarin indicated that it had concluded that the likelihood of achieving a therapeutic effect in DMD patients was highly unlikely. In 2010, BioMarin transferred the assets, and all commercialization rights, back to us, and in June 2018, we announced the discontinuation of the development of ezutromid.
Collaboration agreements may not lead to development or commercialization of product candidates in the most efficient manner or at all. If a collaborator of ours were to be involved in a business combination, the continued pursuit and emphasis on our product development or commercialization program could be delayed, diminished or terminated.
Use of third parties to manufacture our product candidates may increase the risk that we will not have sufficient quantities of our product candidates or products or such quantities at an acceptable cost, which could delay, prevent or impair our development or commercialization efforts.
We do not own or operate manufacturing facilities for the production of clinical or commercial supplies of our product candidates. We have limited personnel with experience in drug manufacturing and lack the resources and the capabilities to manufacture any of our product candidates on a clinical or commercial scale. We currently rely on third parties for supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredients, or API, in our product candidates. Our strategy is to outsource all manufacturing of our product candidates and products to third parties.
We do not currently have any agreements with third-party manufacturers for the long-term clinical or commercial supply of any of our product candidates. We are engaged with a third-party manufacturer to provide clinical material of the API of ridinilazole with a different supplier responsible for fill and finish services to supply the final drug product for use in the Phase 3 clinical trials. We may be unable to conclude agreements for commercial supply with third-party manufacturers, or may be unable to do so on acceptable terms.
Even if we are able to establish and maintain arrangements with third-party manufacturers, reliance on third-party manufacturers entails additional risks, including:
•reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance;
•the possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party;
•the possible misappropriation of our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and know-how; and
•the possible termination or nonrenewal of the agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us.
Third-party manufacturers may not be able to comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, regulations or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party manufacturers, to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on us, including fines, injunctions, civil penalties, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which could significantly and adversely affect supplies of our product candidates.
Our product candidates and any products that we may develop may compete with other product candidates and products for access to manufacturing facilities. There are a limited number of manufacturers that operate under cGMP regulations and that might be capable of manufacturing for us.
In addition, in order to conduct late-stage clinical trials of our product candidates, we will need to have them manufactured in large quantities. Our third-party manufacturers may be unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or cost-effective manner, or at all.
The third-party manufacturer responsible for the fill and finish services to supply the final drug product for our Phase 3 clinical trials of ridinilazole experienced challenges in the fill and finish process used to manufacture test batches of the clinical supply of ridinilazole, specifically the manufacture of ridinilazole in tablet form, which is also the form expected to be used commercially, and which is a change from the capsule form used in our completed clinical trials of ridinilazole. Because of these challenges, we were not able to obtain sufficient quantities of ridinilazole to commence our Phase 3 clinical trials in the first half of 2018 as originally planned and delayed the commencement of those trials until February 2019. If our third-party manufacturer experiences these challenges again or is otherwise unable to manufacture sufficient quantity of the tablet form of ridinilazole, our Phase 3 clinical trials may be further delayed. Moreover, if our third-party manufacturers are unable to successfully scale up the manufacture of our product candidates in sufficient quality and quantity, the development, testing and clinical trials of that product candidate may be delayed or infeasible, and regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or not obtained, which could significantly harm our business.
If the third parties that we engage to manufacture product for our preclinical tests and clinical trials should cease to continue to do so for any reason, including due to the novel coronavirus or another outbreak, we likely would experience delays in advancing these clinical trials while we identify and qualify replacement suppliers, and we may be unable to obtain replacement supplies on terms that are favorable to us. In addition, if we are not able to obtain adequate supplies of our product candidates or the drug substances used to manufacture them, it will be more difficult for us to develop our product candidates and compete effectively. Any inability to obtain adequate supplies of ridinilazole for clinical trials may also impact Eurofarma’s ability to commercialize ridinilazole, if marketing approval is obtained, in the jurisdictions where Eurofarma holds commercialization rights. Under our license and commercialization agreement with Eurofarma, we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply or cause to be supplied to Eurofarma sufficient commercial supply of ridinilazole.
Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of our product candidates may adversely affect our future profit margins and our ability, and the ability of Eurofarma and any other future collaborator, to develop product candidates and commercialize any products that receive marketing approval on a timely and competitive basis.
We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet deadlines for the completion of such clinical trials.
We do not independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, clinical data management organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators, to perform this function. Any of these third parties may terminate their engagements with us at any time. If we need to enter into alternative arrangements, it would delay our product development activities.
Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities but does not relieve us of our responsibilities. For example, we remain responsible for ensuring that each of our clinical trials is conducted in accordance with the general investigational plan and protocols for the clinical trial. Moreover, the FDA requires us to comply with standards, commonly referred to as Good Clinical Practice, or GCP, for conducting, recording and reporting the results of clinical trials to assure that data and reported results are credible and accurate and that the rights, integrity of data and confidentiality of clinical trial participants are protected. The EMA imposes similar requirements on us for products that are the subject of clinical trials in the European Union, including the United Kingdom.
We also are required to register ongoing clinical trials and post the results of completed clinical trials on a U.S. government-sponsored database, www.ClinicalTrials.gov, within certain timeframes. Failure to do so can result in fines, adverse publicity and civil and criminal sanctions. In September 2016, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services through the U.S. National Institutes of Health issued new regulations that expand the legal requirements for submitting registration and results information for clinical trials involving FDA-regulated drugs, biologics and medical devices. The new rules require sponsors, among other things, to post results of clinical trials for unapproved products, including unfavorable results in clinical trials for unapproved uses of approved products. The EMA has also adopted transparency requirements that apply to clinical trials conducted in the European Union (EMA Policy/0070 on the publication of clinical data for medicinal products for human use, effective as of January 1, 2015). The EMA will implement this policy on the publication of clinical data in two phases. Phase 1 concerns the publication of clinical reports submitted to the EMA as part of a marketing authorization application and through the centralized procedure. It entered into force on January 1, 2015, but publication by the EMA is currently suspended until further notice due to the relocation of the EMA to Amsterdam. Phase 2 concerns the publication of individual patient data. The EMA will implement this phase at a later stage. This publication requirement for clinical reports may force us to disclose know-how relating to the design of clinical trials for our product candidates, which may harm our interests by disclosing valuable know-how to our competitors, which may be used to develop competing products to our product candidates.
Furthermore, third parties that we rely on for our clinical development activities may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, meet expected deadlines or conduct our clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our stated protocols, we will not be able to obtain, or may be delayed in obtaining, marketing approvals for our product candidates and will not be able to, or may be delayed in our efforts to, successfully commercialize our product candidates. Our product development costs will increase if we experience delays in testing or obtaining marketing approvals.
We also rely on other third parties to store and distribute drug supplies for our clinical trials. Any performance failure on the part of our distributors could delay clinical development or marketing approval of our product candidates or commercialization of our products, producing additional losses and depriving us of potential product revenue.
If we are not able to establish additional collaborations, we may have to alter our development and commercialization plans.
Our product development programs and the potential commercialization of our product candidates will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. For some of our product candidates, we may decide to collaborate further with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for the development and potential commercialization of those product candidates.
We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators. Whether we reach a definitive agreement for a collaboration will depend, among other things, upon our assessment of the collaborator’s resources and expertise, the terms and conditions of the proposed collaboration and the proposed collaborator’s evaluation of a number of factors. Those factors may include the design or results of clinical trials, the likelihood of approval by regulatory authorities, the potential market for the subject product candidate, the costs and complexities of manufacturing and delivering such product candidate to patients, the potential of competing products, the existence of uncertainty with respect to our ownership of technology, which can exist if there is a challenge to such ownership without regard to the merits of the challenge; and industry and market conditions generally. The collaborator may also consider alternative product candidates or technologies for similar indications that may be available to collaborate on and whether such a collaboration could be more attractive than the one with us for our product candidate. We may also be restricted under future license agreements from entering into agreements on certain terms with potential collaborators. Collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. In addition, there have been a significant number of recent business combinations among large pharmaceutical companies that have resulted in a reduced number of potential future collaborators and changes to the strategies of the combined company.
We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on a timely basis, on acceptable terms, or at all. If we are unable to do so, we may have to curtail the development of a product candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of any sales or marketing activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we may not be able to further develop our product candidates or bring them to market and generate product revenue.
If we fail to comply with our obligations in our funding arrangements with third parties, we could be required to repay the grant funding we have received or grant to these third parties rights under certain of our intellectual property.
We have received grant funding for some of our development programs from philanthropic, non-government and not for profit organizations and patient advocacy groups pursuant to agreements that impose development and commercialization diligence obligations on us. If we fail to comply with these obligations, in certain instances the applicable organization could require us to repay the grant funding we have received with interest or grant to the organization rights under certain of our intellectual property, which could materially adversely affect the value to us of product candidates covered by that intellectual property even if we are entitled to a share of any consideration received by such organization in connection with any subsequent development or commercialization of the product candidates.
Risks Related to our Intellectual Property
If we are unable to obtain and maintain patent protection for our technology and products, or if the scope of the patent protection is not sufficiently broad, our competitors could develop and commercialize technology and products similar or identical to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our technology and products may be adversely affected.
Our success depends in large part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent protection in the United States and other countries with respect to our proprietary technology and products, including our Discuva Platform. We seek to protect our proprietary position by filing patent applications in the United States, in Europe and in certain additional foreign jurisdictions related to our novel technologies and product candidates that are important to our business. This process is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output before it is too late to obtain patent protection. Moreover, if we license technology or product candidates from third parties in the future, these license agreements may not permit us to control the preparation, filing and prosecution of patent applications, or to maintain or enforce the patents, covering the licensed technology or product candidates. These agreements could also give our licensors the right to enforce the licensed patents without our involvement, or to decide not to enforce the patents at all. Therefore, in these circumstances, these patents and applications may not be prosecuted or enforced in a manner consistent with the best interests of our business.
The patent position of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies generally is highly uncertain, involves complex legal and factual questions and has in recent years been the subject of much litigation. As a result, the issuance, scope, validity, enforceability and commercial value of our patent rights are highly uncertain. Our pending and future patent applications may not result in patents being issued which protect our technology or products, in whole or in part, or which effectively prevent others from commercializing competitive technologies and products. Changes in either the patent laws or interpretation of the patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our patents, narrow the scope of our patent protection or make enforcement more difficult or uncertain.
The laws of foreign countries may not protect our patent rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. For example, European patent law restricts the patentability of methods of treatment of the human body more than U.S. law does. In addition, for the foregoing reasons, we may not pursue or obtain patent protection in all major markets or may not obtain protection that enables us to prevent the entry of third parties into the market.
Assuming the other requirements for patentability are met, currently, the first to file a patent application is generally entitled to the patent. However, prior to March 16, 2013, in the United States, the first to invent was entitled to the patent. Publications of discoveries in the scientific literature often lag behind the actual discoveries, and patent applications in the United States and other jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months after filing, or in some cases not at all. Therefore, we cannot know with certainty whether we were the first to make the inventions claimed in our U.S. patents or pending U.S. patent applications, or that we were the first to file for patent protection of such inventions outside the United States or, since March 16, 2013, within the United States.
Moreover, we may be subject to a third party preissuance submission of prior art to the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the USPTO, or become involved in opposition, derivation, reexamination, reissue, inter partes review, post grant review, interference proceedings or other patent office proceedings, court litigation or International Trade Commission proceedings, in
the United States or elsewhere, challenging our patent rights or the patent rights of others. An adverse determination in any such submission, proceeding or litigation concerning our patent rights could reduce the scope of or prevent the enforceability of, or invalidate, our patent rights, allowing third parties to commercialize our technology or products, or equivalent or similar technology or products, and so to compete directly with us, without payment to us, or, where such proceedings involve third-party patents, result in our inability to manufacture or commercialize products without infringing third-party patent rights. In addition, if the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents and patent applications is threatened or narrowed by operation of any of the foregoing, such an event could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to license, develop or commercialize current or future product candidates.
Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with adequate protection to prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise to provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our owned or licensed patents by developing similar, improved or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner.
For example, although ridinilazole is protected by a U.S. composition of matter patent that recites hydrated forms of ridinilazole, and a method of treatment patent for Clostridioides difficile associated disease, patent protection is not available for composition-of-matter claims that only recite the active pharmaceutical ingredient for ridinilazole without limitation to its use. Because ridinilazole lacks composition-of-matter protection for its active pharmaceutical ingredient, competitors will, subject to obtaining marketing approval, be able to offer and sell products with the same active pharmaceutical ingredient so long as these competitors do not infringe any other issued patents that would otherwise cover the drug’s usage, methods of treatment using the drug, drug formulations, drug dosage forms and the like. Moreover, method-of-treatment patent claims are more difficult to enforce than composition-of-matter claims for reasons including off-label sale, potential divided infringement issues and use of the subject compound in non-infringing manners. Physicians are permitted to prescribe an approved product for uses that are not described in the product’s labeling. Although off-label prescriptions may infringe our method-of-treatment patents, the practice is common across medical specialties and such infringement is difficult to prevent or prosecute. Off-label sales would limit our ability to generate revenue from the sale of our product candidates, if approved for commercial sale. In addition, if a third party were able to design around our dosage-form and formulation patents and create a different formulation and dosage form that is not covered by our patents or patent applications, we would likely be unable to prevent that third party from manufacturing and marketing its product.
In addition, other companies may attempt to circumvent any regulatory data protection or market exclusivity, such as orphan drug exclusivity in the United States, which we obtain under applicable legislation, which may require us to allocate significant resources to preventing such circumvention. Legal and regulatory developments in the European Union and elsewhere may also result in clinical trial data submitted as part of a marketing authorization application becoming publicly available. Such developments could enable other companies to use our clinical trial data to assist in their own product development and to obtain marketing authorizations in the European Union and in other jurisdictions. Such developments may also require us to allocate significant resources to prevent other companies from circumventing or violating our intellectual property rights. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights may ultimately be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain our patents.
The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its inventorship, scope, validity or enforceability, and our owned and licensed patents may be challenged in the courts or patent offices in the United States and abroad. Such challenges may result in loss of exclusivity or in patent claims being narrowed, invalidated or held unenforceable, in whole or in part, which could limit our ability to stop others from using or commercializing similar or identical technology and products, or limit the duration of the patent protection of our technology and products. Future changes in U.S. statutory or case law beyond our control could affect some or all of the foregoing possibilities. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new product candidates, patents protecting such candidates might expire before or shortly after such candidates are commercialized. This could be the case even after giving effect to patent term extensions and data exclusivity provisions preventing third parties from relying on clinical trial data filed by us for regulatory approval in support of their own applications for such approval. As a result, our patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours.
We may become involved in lawsuits or other enforcement proceedings to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property, which could be expensive, time-consuming and potentially unsuccessful.
Competitors may infringe our patents, trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property or that our patent and other intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable, including for anti-trust reasons. As a result, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court or administrative body may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, or may construe the patent’s claims narrowly and so refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the competitor technology in question. Even if we are
successful in a patent infringement action, the unsuccessful party may subsequently raise antitrust issues and bring a follow-on action thereon. Antitrust issues may also provide a bar to settlement or constrain the permissible settlement terms. Further, settlement agreements in the pharmaceutical sector are the subject of ongoing review by the antitrust authorities in the European Union.
Third parties may initiate legal proceedings alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, the outcome of which would be uncertain and could have a material adverse effect on the success of our business.
Our commercial success depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies, including our Discuva Platform, without infringing the intellectual property and other proprietary rights of third parties. There is considerable intellectual property litigation in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, and we may become party to, or threatened with, future adversarial proceedings or litigation regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our products and technology, including interference, derivation, inter partes review, reexamination, reissue or post-grant review proceedings before the USPTO. The risks of being involved in such litigation and office proceedings may also increase as our product candidates approach commercialization, and as we gain greater visibility as a publicly traded company in the United States. Third parties may assert infringement claims against us based on existing or future intellectual property rights and so restrict our freedom to operate. Third parties may also seek injunctive relief against us, whereby they would attempt to prevent us from practicing our technologies altogether pending outcome of any litigation against us. We may not be aware of all such intellectual property rights potentially relating to our product candidates prior to their assertion against us. For example, while we have completed an in-depth freedom-to-operate search for ridinilazole, any freedom-to-operate search conducted may not have uncovered all relevant patents and pending patent applications, and there may be pending or future patent applications that, if issued, would block us from commercializing ridinilazole. Thus, we do not know with certainty whether ridinilazole or any other product candidate or our commercialization thereof, does not and will not infringe any third party’s intellectual property.
If we are found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property rights, or in order to avoid or settle litigation, we could be required to obtain a license to enable us to continue developing and marketing our products and technology. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same technologies as are licensed to us, and could require us to make substantial payments. Absent a license, we could be forced, including by court order, to cease commercializing the infringing technology or product. In addition, we could be found liable for monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent or other intellectual property right. A finding of infringement could prevent us from commercializing our product candidates or force us to cease some of our business operations, which could materially harm our business. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties, or claims that we derived our inventions from another, could have a similar negative impact on our business.
We may be subject to claims by third parties asserting that we or our employees have misappropriated their intellectual property, or claiming ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.
Many of our employees were previously employed at universities or other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees do not use the proprietary or otherwise confidential information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these employees have without authorization used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary or confidential information, of any such employee’s former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims.
In addition, while we typically require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us and agreeing to cooperate and assist us with securing and defending our intellectual property, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who in fact develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. Our and their assignment agreements may not be self-executing or may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property.
If we fail in prosecuting or defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in prosecuting or defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.
Intellectual property litigation could cause us to spend substantial resources and could distract our personnel from their normal responsibilities.
Even if resolved in our favor, litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims may cause us to incur significant expenses, and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If
securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our shares of common stock. Such litigation or proceedings could substantially increase our operating losses and reduce the resources available for development, sales, marketing or distribution activities. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to adequately conduct such litigation or proceedings. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Accordingly, costs and lost management time, as well as uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace.
If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.
In addition to seeking patents for some of our technology and products, we also rely on trade secrets, including unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary and confidential information, to maintain our competitive position. We seek to protect these trade secrets, in part, by entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with parties who have access to them, such as our employees, corporate collaborators, outside scientific collaborators, contract manufacturers, consultants, advisors and other third parties. However, we cannot guarantee that we have executed these agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets or that the agreements we have executed will provide adequate protection. Any party with whom we have executed such an agreement may breach that agreement and disclose our proprietary or confidential information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor, we would have no right to prevent them, or those to whom they communicate it, from using that technology or information to compete with us. If any of our trade secrets, particularly unpatented know-how, were to be obtained or independently developed by a competitor, our competitive position would be harmed.
Risks Related to Regulatory Approval and Marketing of our Product Candidates
Even if we complete the necessary clinical trials, the marketing approval process is expensive, time-consuming and uncertain and may prevent us from obtaining approvals for the commercialization of some or all of our product candidates. If we are not able to obtain, or if there are delays in obtaining, required regulatory approvals, we will not be able to commercialize our product candidates, and our ability to generate revenue will be materially impaired.
Our product candidates, including ridinilazole, and the activities associated with their development and commercialization, including their design, testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, recordkeeping, labeling, storage, approval, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution, are subject to comprehensive regulation by the FDA and by comparable authorities in other countries. Failure to obtain marketing approval for a product candidate will prevent us or our collaborators from commercializing the product candidate. We have not received approval to market ridinilazole or any other product candidate from regulatory authorities in any jurisdiction.
We have only limited experience in filing and supporting the applications necessary to obtain marketing approvals for product candidates and expect to rely on third-party contract research organizations to assist us in this process. Securing marketing approval requires the submission of extensive preclinical and clinical data and supporting information to regulatory authorities for each therapeutic indication to establish the product candidate’s safety and efficacy. Securing marketing approval also requires the submission of information about the product manufacturing process to, and inspection of manufacturing facilities by, the regulatory authorities. Regulatory authorities may determine that ridinilazole or any of our other product candidates are not effective or only moderately effective, or have undesirable or unintended side effects, toxicities, safety profiles or other characteristics that preclude us from obtaining marketing approval or that prevent or limit commercial use.
The process of obtaining marketing approvals is expensive, may take many years, if approval is obtained at all, and can vary substantially based upon a variety of factors, including the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates involved. Changes in marketing approval policies during the development period, changes in or the enactment of additional statutes or regulations, or changes in regulatory review for each submitted product application, may cause delays in the approval or rejection of an application. Regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process and may refuse to accept any application or may decide that our data are insufficient for approval and require additional preclinical, clinical or other studies. In addition, varying interpretations of the data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing could delay, limit or prevent marketing approval of a product candidate. Any marketing approval we ultimately obtain may be limited or subject to restrictions or post-approval commitments that render the approved product not commercially viable. If we experience delays in obtaining approval or if we fail to obtain approval of our product candidates, the commercial prospects for our product candidates may be harmed and our ability to generate revenues will be materially impaired.
Our failure to obtain marketing approval in foreign jurisdictions would prevent our product candidates from being marketed in these other jurisdictions, and any approval we are granted for our product candidates in the United States and Europe would not assure approval of our product candidates in other jurisdictions.
In order to market and sell ridinilazole and our other product candidates in foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate marketing approvals and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements in those jurisdictions. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing. The time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA or EMA approval. The regulatory approval process outside the United States and Europe generally includes all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA and EMA approval. In addition, some countries outside the United States and Europe require approval of the sales price of a drug before it can be marketed. In many countries, separate procedures must be followed to obtain reimbursement. We may not obtain marketing, pricing or reimbursement approvals outside the United States and Europe on a timely basis, if at all. Approval by the FDA or the EMA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions, and approval by one regulatory authority outside the United States and Europe does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries or jurisdictions or by the FDA or the EMA. We may not be able to file for marketing approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market. Marketing approvals in countries outside the United States and Europe do not ensure pricing approvals in those countries or in any other countries, and marketing approvals and pricing approvals do not ensure that reimbursement will be obtained.
Our ability to obtain and maintain conditional marketing authorizations in the European Union is limited to specific circumstances and subject to several conditions and obligations. A failure to renew any conditional approval that we obtain prior to full approval for the applicable indication would prevent us from continuing to market our products.
Conditional marketing authorizations based on incomplete clinical data may be granted for a limited number of listed medicinal products for human use, including products designated as orphan medicinal products under E.U. law, if (1) the risk-benefit balance of the product is positive, (2) it is likely that the applicant will be in a position to provide the required comprehensive clinical trial data, (3) unmet medical needs will be fulfilled and (4) the benefit to public health of the immediate availability on the market of the medicinal product outweighs the risk inherent in the fact that additional data are still required. Specific obligations, including with respect to the completion of ongoing or new studies, and with respect to the collection of pharmacovigilance data, may be specified in the conditional marketing authorization. Conditional marketing authorizations are valid for one year and may be renewed annually, if the risk-benefit balance remains positive, and after an assessment of the need for additional or modified conditions. Even if we, or a third-party collaborator, obtain conditional approval for ridinilazole for the treatment of CDI, or any other product candidate, we or they may not be able to renew such conditional approval.
Even if we obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates, the terms of approvals and ongoing regulation of our products may limit how we manufacture and market our products and compliance with such requirements may involve substantial resources, which could materially impair our ability to generate revenue.
Even if marketing approval of a product candidate is granted, an approved product and its manufacturer and marketer are subject to ongoing review and extensive regulation, including the requirement to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy or to conduct costly post-marketing studies or clinical trials and surveillance to monitor the safety or efficacy of the product. We and our collaborators must also comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for any of our product candidates for which we obtain marketing approval. Promotional communications with respect to prescription drugs are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the product’s approved labeling. Thus, neither we nor our collaborators will be able to promote any products we develop for indications or uses for which they are not approved. In addition, manufacturers of approved products and those manufacturers’ facilities are required to ensure that quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to cGMP, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation and reporting requirements. We and our contract manufacturers could be subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA to monitor and ensure compliance with cGMP.
Accordingly, assuming we receive marketing approval for one or more of our product candidates, we and our contract manufacturers will continue to expend time, money and effort in all areas of regulatory compliance, including manufacturing, production, product surveillance and quality control. If we are not able to comply with post-approval regulatory requirements, we could have the marketing approvals for our products withdrawn by regulatory authorities and our ability to market any future products could be limited, which could adversely affect our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. Thus, the cost of compliance with post-approval regulations may have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition.
Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval will be subject to strict enforcement of post-marketing requirements and we could be subject to substantial penalties, including withdrawal of our product from the market, if we fail to comply with all regulatory requirements or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, when and if any of them are approved.
Any product candidate for which we obtain marketing approval, along with the manufacturing processes, post-approval clinical data, labeling, advertising and promotional activities for such product, will be subject to continual requirements of and review by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. These requirements include, but are not limited to, restrictions governing promotion of an approved product, submissions of safety and other post-marketing information and reports, registration and listing requirements, cGMP requirements relating to manufacturing, quality control, quality assurance and corresponding maintenance of records and documents, and requirements regarding the distribution of samples to physicians and recordkeeping.
The FDA and other federal and state agencies, including the Department of Justice, or DOJ, closely regulate compliance with all requirements governing prescription drug products, including requirements pertaining to marketing and promotion of drugs in accordance with the provisions of the approved labeling and manufacturing of products in accordance with cGMP requirements. The FDA and DOJ impose stringent restrictions on manufacturers’ communications regarding off-label use, and if we do not market our products for their approved indications, we may be subject to enforcement action for off-label marketing. Violations of such requirements may lead to investigations alleging violations of the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other statutes, including the False Claims Act and other federal and state health care fraud and abuse laws as well as state consumer protection laws. Our failure to comply with all regulatory requirements, and later discovery of previously unknown adverse events or other problems with our products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes, may yield various results, including:
•litigation involving patients taking our products;
•restrictions on such products, manufacturers or manufacturing processes;
•restrictions on the labeling or marketing of a product;
•restrictions on product distribution or use;
•requirements to conduct post-marketing studies or clinical trials;
•warning or untitled letters;
•withdrawal of the products from the market;
•refusal to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications that we submit;
•recall of products;
•fines, restitution or disgorgement of profits or revenues;
•suspension or withdrawal of marketing approvals;
•damage to relationships with any potential collaborators;
•unfavorable press coverage and damage to our reputation;
•refusal to permit the import or export of our products;
•product seizure; or
•injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.
Non-compliance by us or any future collaborator with regulatory requirements regarding safety monitoring or pharmacovigilance, and with requirements related to the development of products for the pediatric population, can also result in significant financial penalties. Similarly, failure to comply with regulatory requirements regarding the protection of personal information can also lead to significant penalties and sanctions.
Non-compliance with E.U. requirements regarding safety monitoring or pharmacovigilance, and with requirements related to the development of products for the pediatric population, can also result in significant financial penalties. Similarly, failure to comply with the European Union’s requirements regarding the protection of personal information can also lead to significant penalties and sanctions.
Fast track designation by the FDA may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process.
If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address unmet medical need for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA fast track designation. The FDA has granted fast track designation for ridinilazole. However, a fast track designation does not ensure that ridinilazole will receive marketing approval or that approval will be granted within any particular timeframe. We may also seek fast track designation for other product candidates. Even if the FDA grants fast track designation, we may not experience a faster development process, review or approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. In addition, the FDA may withdraw fast track designation if it believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program. Fast track designation alone does not guarantee qualification for the FDA’s priority review procedures.
Priority review designation by the FDA may not lead to a faster regulatory review or approval process and, in any event, does not assure FDA approval of our product candidates.
If the FDA determines that a product candidate offers major advances in treatment or provides a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, the FDA may designate the product candidate for priority review. A priority review designation means that the goal for the FDA to review an application is six months, rather than the standard review period of ten months. Because the FDA designated ridinilazole as a qualified infectious disease product, or QIDP, ridinilazole will receive priority review. We may also request priority review for other product candidates. The FDA has broad discretion with respect to whether or not to grant priority review status to a product candidate, so even if we believe a particular product candidate is eligible for such designation or status, the FDA may decide not to grant it. Moreover, a priority review designation does not necessarily mean a faster regulatory review process or necessarily confer any advantage with respect to approval compared to conventional FDA procedures. Receiving priority review from the FDA does not guarantee approval within the six-month review cycle or thereafter.
Our relationships with customers, healthcare providers and professionals and third-party payors will be subject to applicable anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, which could expose us to criminal sanctions, civil penalties, contractual damages, reputational harm and diminished profits and future earnings.
Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of any product candidates, including ridinilazole, for which we obtain marketing approval. Our future arrangements with customers, healthcare providers and professionals and third-party payors may expose us to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations that may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which we market, sell and distribute our products for which we obtain marketing approval. Restrictions under applicable federal and state healthcare laws and regulations, include, and are not limited to, the following:
•The federal healthcare anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in cash or in kind, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for, or the purchase, order or recommendation of, any good or service, for which payment may be made under federally funded healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. This statute has been broadly interpreted to apply to manufacturer arrangements with prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers, among others. Several other countries, including the United Kingdom, have enacted similar anti-kickback, fraud and abuse, and healthcare laws and regulations.
•The federal False Claims Act imposes civil penalties, including civil whistleblower or qui tam actions, against individuals or entities for knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment that are false or fraudulent or making a false statement to avoid, decrease or conceal an obligation to pay money to the federal government. The government and qui tam relators have brought False Claims Act actions against pharmaceutical companies on the theory that their practices have caused false claims to be submitted to the government. There is also a separate false claims provision imposing criminal penalties.
•The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, imposes criminal and civil liability for executing a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program and also imposes obligations, including mandatory contractual terms, with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information.
•HIPAA also imposes criminal liability for knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for healthcare benefits, items or services.
•The federal Physician Sunshine Act requirements under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, referred to together as the Affordable Care Act, require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies to report to the Department of Health and Human Services information related to payments and other transfers of value made to or at the request of covered recipients, such as physicians and teaching hospitals, and physician ownership and investment interests in such manufacturers. Payments made to physicians and research institutions for clinical trials are included within the ambit of this law.
•Analogous state laws and regulations, such as state anti-kickback and false claims laws, may apply to sales or marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by non-governmental third-party payors, including private insurers, and some state laws require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government in addition to requiring drug manufacturers to report information related to payments to physicians and other health care providers or marketing expenditures. Additionally, some state and local laws require the registration of pharmaceutical sales representatives in the jurisdiction.
Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements with third parties will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental authorities will conclude that our business practices may not
comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law involving applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of these laws or any other governmental regulations that may apply to us, we may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Exclusion, suspension and debarment from government funded healthcare programs would significantly impact our ability to commercialize, sell or distribute any drug. If any of the physicians or other providers or entities with whom we expect to do business are found to be not in compliance with applicable laws, they may be subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions, including exclusions from government funded healthcare programs.
Current and future legislation may increase the difficulty and cost for us and any future collaborators to obtain marketing approval of and commercialize our product candidates and affect the prices we, or they, may obtain.
In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative and regulatory changes and proposed changes regarding the healthcare system that could, among other things, prevent or delay marketing approval of our product candidates, restrict or regulate post-approval activities and affect our ability, or the ability of any future collaborators, to profitably sell any products for which we, or they, obtain marketing approval. We expect that current laws, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and in additional downward pressure on the price that we, or any future collaborators, may receive for any approved products.
In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively the ACA. Among the provisions of the ACA of potential importance to our business and our product candidates are the following:
•an annual, non-deductible fee on any entity that manufactures or imports specified branded prescription drugs and biologic agents;
•an increase in the statutory minimum rebates a manufacturer must pay under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program;
•expansion of healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the civil False Claims Act and the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers and enhanced penalties for noncompliance;
•a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% (and 70% as of January 1, 2019) point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices;
•extension of manufacturers’ Medicaid rebate liability;
•expansion of eligibility criteria for Medicaid programs;
•expansion of the entities eligible for discounts under the Public Health Service pharmaceutical pricing program;
•new requirements to report certain financial arrangements with physicians and teaching hospitals;
•a new requirement to annually report drug samples that manufacturers and distributors provide to physicians; and
•a new Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute to oversee, identify priorities in, and conduct comparative clinical effectiveness research, along with funding for such research.
In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the ACA was enacted. These changes include the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, led to aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year that started in 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will stay in effect through 2029 unless additional congressional action is taken, and the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, which, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years. These new laws may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding and otherwise affect the prices we may obtain for any of our product candidates for which we may obtain regulatory approval or the frequency with which any such product candidate is prescribed or used. Further, there have been several recent U.S. congressional inquiries and proposed state and federal legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the costs of drugs under Medicare and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products.
Since enactment of the ACA, there have been, and continue to be, numerous legal challenges and Congressional actions to repeal and replace provisions of the law. For example, with enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, which was signed by President Trump on December 22, 2017, Congress repealed the “individual mandate.” The repeal of this provision, which requires most Americans to carry a minimal level of health insurance, became effective in 2019. Additionally, the 2020 federal spending package permanently eliminated, effective January 1, 2020, the ACA-mandated “Cadillac” tax on high-cost employer-sponsored health coverage and medical device tax and, effective January 1, 2021, also eliminates the health insurer tax. Further, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018, among other things, amended the ACA, effective January 1, 2019, to increase from 50 percent to 70 percent the point-of-sale discount that is owed by pharmaceutical manufacturers who participate in Medicare Part D and to close the coverage gap in most Medicare drug plans, commonly referred to as the “donut hole.” The Congress may
consider other legislation to revise or replace elements of the ACA during the next Congressional session, whether in response to pending high court decisions or at its own initiative to amend or supplement the ACA. It is unclear how ongoing litigation and other efforts to amend the ACA will impact the ACA and our business. Litigation and legislation over the ACA are likely to continue, with unpredictable and uncertain results.
We expect that these healthcare reforms, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding, more rigorous coverage criteria, new payment methodologies and additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product and/or the level of reimbursement physicians receive for administering any approved product we might bring to market. Reductions in reimbursement levels may negatively impact the prices we receive or the frequency with which our products are prescribed or administered. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors.
The costs of prescription pharmaceuticals has also been the subject of considerable discussion in the United States. To date, there have been several recent U.S. congressional inquiries and proposed and enacted state and federal legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, reduce the costs of drugs under Medicare and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drug products. For example, the Trump administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2021 had included a $135 billion allowance to support legislative proposals seeking to reduce drug prices, increase competition, lower out-of-pocket drug costs for patients, and increase patient access to lower-cost generic and biosimilar drugs. It remains unclear the extent which the Biden administration and the new session of Congress will seek new legislative and/or administrative measures to control drug costs.
At the state level, individual states are increasingly aggressive in passing legislation and implementing regulations designed to control pharmaceutical and biological product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing. In addition, regional health care authorities and individual hospitals are increasingly using bidding procedures to determine what pharmaceutical products and which suppliers will be included in their prescription drug and other healthcare programs. These measures could reduce the ultimate demand for our products, once approved, or put pressure on our product pricing. We expect that additional state and federal healthcare reform measures will be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services, which could result in reduced demand for our product candidates or additional pricing pressures.
Legislative and regulatory proposals have also been made to expand post-approval requirements and restrict sales and promotional activities for pharmaceutical products. We cannot be sure whether additional legislative changes will be enacted, or whether the FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will be changed, or what the impact of such changes on the marketing approvals of our product candidates, if any, may be. In addition, increased scrutiny by the U.S. Congress of the FDA’s approval process may significantly delay or prevent marketing approval, as well as subject us and any future collaborators to more stringent product labeling and post-marketing testing and other requirements.
In the European Union, similar political, economic and regulatory developments may affect our ability to profitably commercialize our products. In addition to continuing pressure on prices and cost containment measures, legislative developments at the European Union or member state level may result in significant additional requirements or obstacles that may increase our operating costs.
We are subject to anti-corruption laws, as well as export control laws, customs laws, sanctions laws and other laws governing our operations. If we fail to comply with these laws, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, other remedial measures and legal expenses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Our operations are subject to anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, or Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption laws that apply in countries where we do business and may do business in the future. The FCPA, Bribery Act and these other laws generally prohibit us, our officers, and our employees and intermediaries from bribing, being bribed or making other prohibited payments to government officials or other persons to obtain or retain business or gain some other business advantage. We may in the future operate in jurisdictions that pose a high risk of potential FCPA or Bribery Act violations, and we may participate in collaborations and relationships with third parties whose actions could potentially subject us to liability under the FCPA, Bribery Act or local anti-corruption laws. In addition, we cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our international operations might be subject or the manner in which existing laws might be administered or interpreted.
We are also subject to other laws and regulations governing our international operations, including regulations administered by the governments of the United States and the United Kingdom, and authorities in the European Union, including applicable
export control regulations, economic sanctions on countries and persons, customs requirements and currency exchange regulations, collectively referred to as the Trade Control laws.
There is no assurance that we will be completely effective in ensuring our compliance with all applicable anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA, the Bribery Act or other legal requirements, including Trade Control laws. If we are not in compliance with the FCPA, the Bribery Act and other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws, we may be subject to criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement and other sanctions and remedial measures, and legal expenses, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. Likewise, any investigation of any potential violations of the FCPA, the Bribery Act, other anti-corruption laws or Trade Control laws by U.S., U.K. or other authorities could also have an adverse impact on our reputation, our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Risks Related to Employee Matters and Managing Growth
Our future success depends on our ability to retain our chief executive officer and other key executives and to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel.
We are highly dependent on the principal members of our executive and scientific teams, including Robert W. Duggan, our Chief Executive Officer, Michael Donaldson, our Chief Financial Officer, and Dr. Mahkam Zanganeh, our Chief Operating Officer. Although we have formal employment agreements with some of our executive officers, these agreements do not prevent our executives from terminating their employment with us at any time. We do not maintain “key person” insurance on any of our executive officers. The unplanned loss of the services of any of these persons could materially impact the achievement of our research, development and commercialization objectives.
Recruiting and retaining qualified scientific, clinical, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel, including in the United States where we plan to continue to expand our physical presence, will also be critical to our success. We may not be able to attract and retain these personnel on acceptable terms given the competition among numerous biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies for similar personnel. We also experience competition for the hiring of scientific and clinical personnel from universities and research institutions. In addition, we rely on consultants and advisors, including scientific and clinical advisors, to assist us in formulating our research and development and commercialization strategy. Our consultants and advisors may be employed by employers other than us and may have commitments under consulting or advisory contracts with other entities that may limit their availability to us.
We expect to expand our development, regulatory and sales and marketing capabilities, and as a result, we may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations.
We expect to experience significant growth in the number of our employees and the scope of our operations, particularly in the areas of drug development, regulatory affairs and sales and marketing. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to implement and improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Due to our limited financial resources and the limited experience of our management team in managing a company with such anticipated growth, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations may lead to significant costs and may divert our management and business development resources. Any inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plans or disrupt our operations.
Our employees may engage in misconduct or other improper activities, including non-compliance with regulatory standards and requirements, which could cause significant liability for us and harm our reputation.
We are exposed to the risk of employee fraud or other misconduct, including intentional failures to comply with FDA or Office of Inspector General regulations or similar regulations of comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, provide accurate information to the FDA or comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, comply with manufacturing standards we have established, comply with federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and similar laws and regulations established and enforced by comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities, report financial information or data accurately or disclose unauthorized activities to us. Similar employee fraud or misconduct could occur with respect to reimbursement requests and other reports we are required to submit to BARDA. Employee misconduct could also involve the improper use of information obtained in the course of clinical trials, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious harm to our reputation, or a request for the reimbursement of expenses that were not incurred, which could cause BARDA to terminate our contract with them. It is not always possible to identify and deter employee misconduct, and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in controlling unknown or unmanaged risks or losses or in protecting us from governmental investigations or other actions or lawsuits stemming from a failure to be in compliance with such laws, standards or regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our
rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business and results of operations, including the imposition of significant fines or other sanctions.
Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock
The prices of our shares of common stock may be volatile and fluctuate substantially, which could result in substantial losses for our stockholders.
The market prices of our shares of common stock on the Nasdaq Global Market may be volatile and fluctuate substantially. The stock market in general and the market for smaller pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, stockholders may not be able to sell their shares of common stock at or above the price at which they were purchased.
The market price for our shares of common stock may be influenced by many factors, including:
•the success of competitive products or technologies;
•results of clinical trials of ridinilazole and any other product candidate that we develop;
•results of clinical trials of product candidates of our competitors;
•changes or developments in laws or regulations applicable to ridinilazole and any other product candidates that we develop;
•our entry into, and the success of, any collaboration agreements with third parties;
•the operation of our contract with BARDA, and whether BARDA elects to pursue its remaining option work segment beyond the base period;
•developments or disputes concerning patent applications, issued patents or other proprietary rights;
•the recruitment or departure of key personnel;
•the level of expenses related to any of our product candidates or clinical development programs;
•the results of our efforts to discover, develop, acquire or in-license additional product candidates, products or technologies;
•actual or anticipated changes in estimates as to financial results, development timelines or recommendations by securities analysts;
•variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us;
•changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems;
•market conditions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical sectors;
•regulatory or legal developments in the United States and other countries;
•the societal and economic impact of public health epidemics, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and government efforts to slow their spread;
•general economic, industry and market conditions;
•the trading volume of the shares on the Nasdaq Global Market; and
•the other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section.
Our shares of common stock do not trade on any exchange outside of the United States.
Our shares of common stock are listed only in the United States on The Nasdaq Global Market, and we have no plans to list our shares in any other jurisdiction. As a result, a holder of our shares of common stock outside of the United States may not be able to effect transactions in our shares as readily as the holder may if our shares were listed on an exchange in that holder’s home jurisdiction.
Substantial future sales of our shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of the shares to decline significantly, even if our business is doing well.
Sales of a substantial number of our shares of common stock in the public market could occur at any time. These sales, or the perception in the market that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of the shares to decline. Following the domestication, all of our outstanding shares of common stock were freely tradeable in the public market without restriction, unless held by our affiliates. Our principal stockholder and chief executive officer, Mr. Robert W. Duggan, holds a substantial number of shares. Mr. Duggan’s shares have been registered for resale pursuant to an effective registration statement on Form S-3. If he sells, or indicates an intention to sell, substantial amounts of shares in the public market, the trading price of our shares could decline.
Our principal stockholder and chief executive officer maintains the ability to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to stockholders for approval.
As of December 31, 2020, Mr. Duggan beneficially owned, in the aggregate, shares of common stock representing approximately 69.6% of our outstanding capital stock. Mr. Duggan is able to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, as well as our management and affairs. For example, Mr. Duggan is able to control or influence the election of directors and approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. This concentration of voting power could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company on terms that other stockholders may desire. As a member of the board of directors, Mr. Duggan will adhere to the corporate governance standards adopted by the company.
As a “controlled company” under the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market, we have an exemption from certain corporate governance requirements, which could adversely affect our stockholders by denying them certain rights and protections.
Mr. Duggan owns more than a majority of the voting power of our outstanding shares of common stock. Under the Nasdaq Stock Market listing requirements, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group, or another company is a “controlled company.” We have in the past, and we expect in the future, to rely on the “controlled company” exemptions under the Nasdaq Stock Market listing requirements. For example, in the past, a majority of the members of our board of directors were not independent directors, and our compensation and nominating and corporate governance committees did not consist entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, during the period we remain a controlled company and during any transition period following a time when we are no longer a controlled company, you may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market.
We are a “smaller reporting company” and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to smaller reporting companies may make our shares of common stock less attractive to investors.
We are a “smaller reporting company,” as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. We would cease to be a smaller reporting company if we have a public float in excess of $250 million or have annual revenues in excess of $100 million and a public float in excess of $700 million, determined on an annual basis.
We expect to continue to take advantage of some or all of the exemptions available to us as a smaller reporting company. We cannot predict whether investors will find our shares of common stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our shares of common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for the shares and the market price of the shares may be more volatile.
We incur increased costs as a result of operating as a company with shares of common stock that are publicly traded in the United States, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives.
As a company with shares of common stock that are publicly traded in the United States, and particularly after we are no longer a “smaller reporting company,” we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies, including establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly.
However, for as long as we remain a smaller reporting company, we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not smaller reporting companies as described in the preceding risk factor.
If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our shares of common stock.
Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. In addition, any testing by us conducted in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, or any subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, as and when required, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses or that may require prospective or retroactive
changes to our financial statements or identify other areas for further attention or improvement. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our shares of common stock.
Pursuant to Section 404, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. As we are no longer an “emerging growth company” as of January 1, 2021, to achieve compliance with Section 404, we are engaged in a process to document and evaluate our internal control over financial reporting, which is both costly and challenging. In this regard, we will need to continue to dedicate internal resources, potentially engage outside consultants and adopt a detailed work plan to assess and document the adequacy of internal control over financial reporting, continue steps to improve control processes as appropriate, validate through testing that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal control over financial reporting. Despite our efforts, there is a risk that we will not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as required by Section 404. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements.
Our restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and the federal district courts of the United States of America as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers and employees.
Our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware does not have jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law:
•any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf;
•any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, employees or stockholders to our company or our stockholders;
•any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; or
•any action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws (in each case, as they may be amended from time to time) or governed by the internal affairs doctrine.
These choice of forum provisions will not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act. Furthermore, Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all such Securities Act actions. Accordingly, both state and federal courts have jurisdiction to entertain such claims. To prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States of America shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for the resolution of any claims arising under the Securities Act. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring a claim in a venue other than those designated in the exclusive forum provisions. In such instance, we would expect to vigorously assert the validity and enforceability of the exclusive forum provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation. This may require significant additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions and there can be no assurance that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions.
These exclusive forum provisions may limit the ability of our stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such stockholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. If a court were to find the either exclusive forum provision contained in our restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur further significant additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, all of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.
Because we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future, capital appreciation, if any, will be the sole source of gain for our stockholders.
We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our shares of common stock or on Summit Therapeutics plc’s ordinary shares. We currently intend to retain all of our future earnings to fund the development and expansion of our business. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. As a result, capital appreciation of our shares of common stock, if any, will be the sole source of gain for our stockholders for the foreseeable future.
If equity research analysts stop publishing research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our shares of common stock, the price of the shares could decline.
The trading market for our shares of common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our shares of common stock could decline if one or more equity research analysts downgrades such securities or if analysts issue other unfavorable commentary about us or our business. In addition, if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause the trading prices and trading volumes of our shares of common stock to decline.
We are exposed to risks related to currency exchange rates.
We conduct a significant portion of our operations in the United Kingdom. Because our financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, changes in currency exchange rates have had and could have a significant effect on our operating results when our operating results are translated into pounds sterling. Exchange rate fluctuations between local currencies and the U.S. dollar create risk in several ways, including the following: weakening of the U.S. dollar may increase the U.S. dollar cost of overseas research and development expenses and the cost of sourced product components outside the United Kingdom; strengthening of the U.S. dollar may decrease the value of our revenues denominated in other currencies; the exchange rates on non-dollar transactions and cash deposits can distort our financial results; and commercial pricing and profit margins are affected by currency fluctuations.
We have broad discretion in the use of our cash and cash equivalents and may not use them effectively.
Our management has broad discretion in the use of our cash and cash equivalents and could spend our cash in ways that do not improve our results of operations or enhance the value of our shares of common stock. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could result in financial losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business, cause the market price of our shares of common stock to decline and delay the development of our product candidates.
Item 1B.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 4bd9a5b50e04170147dc6c0558cfd748
- Approx. Length: 33064 characters