# Context

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
The following is a discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties and that are not historical facts, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and particularly under the headings “Risk Factors,” “Business” and “Note on Forward-Looking Statements” contained in Item 1A, Item 1, and Part I of this Form 10-K, respectively.
Comment on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
Throughout this Form 10-K, our analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our results of operations have been presented in the way that we believe will be the most meaningful and useful to investors, analysts, rating agencies and others who use financial information in evaluating our performance. This presentation includes the use of underwriting profit and adjusted earnings before income taxes, which are “non-GAAP financial measures,” as such term is defined in Item 10(e) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC. The presentation of these financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. These measures may also be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies, limiting their usefulness for comparison purposes. A discussion of our calculation and use of these financial measures is provided below.
Underwriting profit is a non-GAAP financial measure for our reinsurance and insurance segments. Underwriting profit represents net premiums earned less net loss and LAE and commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses, all as determined in accordance with GAAP and does not include: (i) net investment income; (ii) change in the fair value of equity securities; (iii) net realized capital gains; (iv) change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities; (v) noninsurance revenue; (vi) other operating expenses; (vii) corporate administration; (viii) amortization of intangible assets; and (ix) interest expense. We use underwriting profit as a supplement to earnings before income taxes, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the performance of our reinsurance and insurance segments and believe that underwriting profit provides useful additional information to investors because it highlights net earnings attributable to our reinsurance and insurance segments’ underwriting performance. Earnings before income taxes may show a profit despite an underlying underwriting loss, and when underwriting losses persist over extended periods, a reinsurance or an insurance company’s ability to continue as an ongoing concern may be at risk. A reconciliation of underwriting profit to earnings before income taxes is presented within “Consolidated Results of Operations.”
Adjusted earnings before income taxes is a non-GAAP financial measure for our Alleghany Capital segment. Adjusted earnings before income taxes represents noninsurance revenue and net investment income less other operating expenses and interest expense, and does not include: (i) amortization of intangible assets; (ii) change in the fair value of equity securities; (iii) net realized capital gains; (iv) change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities; and (v) income taxes. Because adjusted earnings before income taxes excludes amortization of intangible assets, change in the fair value of equity securities, net realized capital gains, change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities and income taxes, it provides an indication of economic performance that is not affected by levels of effective tax rates or levels of amortization resulting from acquisition accounting. We use adjusted earnings before income taxes as a supplement to earnings before income taxes, the most comparable GAAP financial measure, to evaluate the performance of certain of our noninsurance operating subsidiaries and investments. A reconciliation of adjusted earnings before income taxes to earnings before income taxes is presented within “Consolidated Results of Operations.”
Overview
The following overview does not address all of the matters covered in the other sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or contain all of the information that may be important to our stockholders or the investing public. This overview should be read in conjunction with the other sections of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.
•
Net earnings attributable to Alleghany stockholders were $101.8 million in 2020, compared with $857.8 million in 2019 and $39.5 million in 2018.
•
Net investment income decreased by 10.8 percent in 2020 from 2019, and increased by 9.9 percent in 2019 from 2018.
•
Net premiums written increased by 10.3 percent in 2020 from 2019, and increased 13.9 percent in 2019 from 2018.
•
Underwriting loss was $128.7 million in 2020, compared with underwriting profit of $33.0 million in 2019 and underwriting loss of $161.5 million in 2018.
•
The combined ratio for our reinsurance and insurance segments was 102.1 percent in 2020, compared with 99.4 percent in 2019 and 103.2 percent in 2018.
•
Catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and including losses from the Pandemic, were $801.5 million in 2020, compared with $399.7 million in 2019 and $657.7 million in 2018.
•
Net favorable prior accident year loss reserve development was $220.8 million in 2020, compared with $184.7 million in 2019 and $329.0 million in 2018.
•
Noninsurance revenue for Alleghany Capital was $2,477.5 million in 2020, compared with $2,289.3 million in 2019 and $1,574.6 million in 2018.
•
Earnings before income taxes for Alleghany Capital were $146.0 million in 2020, compared with $111.1 million in 2019 and $59.8 million in 2018. Adjusted earnings before income taxes were $153.9 million in 2020, compared with $142.6 million in 2019 and $83.3 million in 2018.
As of December 31, 2020, we had total assets of $28.9 billion and total stockholders’ equity attributable to Alleghany stockholders of $8.8 billion. As of December 31, 2020, we had consolidated total investments of approximately $20.2 billion, consisting of $15.6 billion invested in debt securities, $2.7 billion invested in equity securities, $0.7 billion invested in commercial mortgage loans, $0.7 billion invested in short-term investments and $0.5 billion invested in other invested assets.
The ongoing Pandemic has significantly disrupted many aspects of society as well as financial markets, and has caused widespread global economic dislocation. At the parent and subsidiary levels, we have implemented a variety of business continuation and crisis management policies and procedures to reduce the risk of infection to our employees and others.
Among other impacts on the economy, the Pandemic has adversely impacted financial markets, which in turn impacted our investment portfolio. These impacts are more fully described below, as well as a recovery in the financial markets in the latter half of 2020.
We also incurred $801.5 million of catastrophe losses in 2020 of which $415.2 million arose from the Pandemic. The vast majority of the Pandemic losses were incurred at TransRe, and include those from event cancellation coverage for conferences and sporting events as well as other property coverages and, to a lesser extent, the accident and health and trade credit lines of business. Pandemic losses at RSUI primarily relate to business interruption claims and related estimated legal expenses. CapSpecialty also incurred a modest amount of Pandemic losses. Our Pandemic loss estimates were based on information currently available to us, including an analysis of reported claims, an underwriting review of in-force contracts and other factors requiring considerable judgment. Our loss estimates for Pandemic losses do not reflect judicial, legislative and regulatory risk that could expand coverage beyond the terms of our treaty and policy language, although they do reflect provisions for related legal expenses.
TransRe’s Pandemic catastrophe losses were $391.8 million in 2020, which include $154.1 million of losses related to specific event cancellation treaties underwritten in the U.S., which TransRe began to exit prior to the Pandemic in February 2019. Based on current information, estimated exposed limits remaining on this portfolio, net of provisions, are approximately $53 million for 2020 events and $38 million for events scheduled throughout 2021. Events and event cancellation policies are not uniform in nature. Ultimate losses will depend on the timing of gathering restrictions being lifted, whether the event can be rescheduled and how far in advance the event is postponed or cancelled. As such, cancellation or postponement of the event does not necessarily mean a full limit will be paid. Furthermore, there could be additional incidental losses where event cancellation
policies comprise a small portion of exposure to certain multi-line treaties. Pandemic losses in 2020 include the impact of a September 15, 2020 U.K. court ruling that upheld certain U.K. policyholder business interruption claims brought against the insurance industry.
We cannot reasonably estimate the length or severity of the Pandemic, or the extent to which the related disruption may adversely impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Such potential adverse impacts of a prolonged Pandemic on our operations, financial position and cash flows include further declines in our equity securities portfolio, additional credit-related realized and unrealized losses on our debt securities and commercial mortgage portfolios, additional credit losses on our reinsurance recoverables and other receivables, further losses from event cancellation and other coverages from our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries, increased litigation and impairment of certain Alleghany Capital subsidiary goodwill and intangible assets.
Aside from the Pandemic, our reinsurance and insurance segments incurred significant weather and other catastrophe losses. More specifically, in 2020:
•
Hurricane Laura caused widespread property damage and flooding in August 2020, primarily in Louisiana and Texas;
•
Hurricane Sally caused widespread property damage and flooding in September 2020, primarily in Alabama and Florida; and
•
Earthquakes in Puerto Rico caused widespread property damage, primarily in January 2020.
In 2019:
•
Typhoon Hagibis caused widespread property damage and flooding in October 2019, primarily in Japan, and affected regions which included those affected by Typhoon Faxai, which caused widespread property damage and flooding in September 2019, primarily in Japan;
•
Civil unrest in Chile caused widespread property damage in the fourth quarter of 2019; and
•
Hurricane Dorian caused widespread property damage and flooding in August and September 2019, primarily in the Bahamas, North Carolina and South Carolina.
In 2018:
•
Typhoons Jebi and Trami caused widespread property damage and flooding in September 2018, primarily in Japan;
•
Wildfires in California caused widespread property damage primarily in the fourth quarter of 2018;
•
Hurricane Michael caused widespread property damage and flooding in October 2018, primarily in Florida and Georgia; and
•
Hurricane Florence caused widespread property damage and flooding in September 2018, primarily in North Carolina.
Our loss estimates for all of these catastrophes were based on information available at the time, including an analysis of reported claims, an underwriting review of in-force contracts, estimates of losses resulting from wind and other perils, including storm surge and flooding to the extent covered by applicable policies, and other factors requiring considerable judgment.
The following table presents the impact of our catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, for 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(1)
Represents an increase in net premiums earned.
Our catastrophe losses are more fully described on pages 94, 95, 101 and 102. In addition to catastrophe losses in the current accident year, we report both favorable and unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to catastrophes. See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for detail on our prior accident year catastrophe loss reserve development.
Consolidated Results of Operations
The following table presents our consolidated revenues, costs and expenses and earnings:
Alleghany’s segments are reported in a manner consistent with the way management evaluates the businesses. As such, Alleghany classifies its businesses into three reportable segments - reinsurance, insurance and Alleghany Capital. Corporate activities are not classified as a segment.
See Note 13 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail on our segments and corporate activities. The tables below present the results for our segments and for corporate activities for 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(1)
Excludes certain minor, legacy investments that were previously reflected in Alleghany Capital in 2018 and prior periods.
(2)
Underwriting profit represents net premiums earned less net loss and LAE and commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses, all as determined in accordance with GAAP, and does not include net investment income, change in the fair value of equity securities, net realized capital gains, change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities, noninsurance revenue, other operating expenses, corporate administration, amortization of intangible assets and interest expense. Underwriting profit is a non-GAAP financial measure and does not replace earnings before income taxes determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of profitability. See “Comment on Non-GAAP Financial Measures” herein for additional detail on the presentation of our results of operations.
(3)
Catastrophe losses in 2020 include $391.8 million, $23.4 million and $415.2 million of Pandemic-related losses incurred at our reinsurance segment, insurance segment and in total, respectively, as described above.
(4)
The loss ratio is derived by dividing the amount of net loss and LAE by net premiums earned, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
(5)
The expense ratio is derived by dividing the amount of commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses by net premiums earned, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
(6)
The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. The combined ratio represents the percentage of each premium dollar a reinsurance or an insurance company has to spend on net loss and LAE, and commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses.
Comparison of 2020, 2019 and 2018
Premiums. The following table presents our consolidated premiums:
2020 vs 2019. The increase in gross premiums written in 2020 from 2019 is attributable to growth at our reinsurance segment as well as our insurance segment, primarily at RSUI. The increase at our reinsurance segment primarily reflects generally improving rates overall, growth in various traditional casualty and other professional liability lines of business in the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates. The increase in gross premiums written in 2020 was partially offset by a decrease in automobile-related business in the U.S. arising from rebates at our cedants in reaction to a Pandemic-driven reduction in personal and commercial automobile usage worldwide. Gross premiums written from a certain large whole account quota share treaty, or the “Quota Share Treaty,” were $676.7 million in 2020, respectively, compared with $691.4 million in 2019, reflecting a decrease in casualty & other premiums. The increase in gross premiums written in 2020 from 2019 at RSUI primarily reflects growth in most lines of business due to increases in business opportunities, higher rates and improved general market conditions, particularly in the property, umbrella/excess and directors’ and officers’ liability lines of business.
The increase in net premiums earned in 2020 from 2019 reflects growth in reinsurance and insurance segment gross premiums written in recent quarters.
2019 vs 2018. The increase in gross premiums written in 2019 from 2018 is attributable to growth at our reinsurance segment and, to a lesser extent, at RSUI and CapSpecialty. Growth at our reinsurance segment primarily reflects higher premiums written by the domestic operations, which include the impact of TransRe’s purchase on August 29, 2018 of certain renewal rights to a block of U.S. treaty reinsurance business focused on regional property and casualty, accident & health and personal auto lines of business, or the “Renewal Rights Purchase.” The increase in gross premiums written at our reinsurance segment was partially offset by lower Quota Share Treaty gross premiums written and the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Gross premiums written related to the Quota Share Treaty decreased to $691.4 million in 2019 from $737.6 million in 2018, reflecting a reduction of TransRe’s quota share participation.
The increase in net premiums written in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects higher gross premiums written and lower ceded premiums written due to a decrease in retrocessional coverage purchased in 2019 at our reinsurance segment.
The increase in net premiums earned in 2019 from 2018 reflects growth in gross premiums written in recent quarters and, to a lesser extent, decreases in ceded premiums in recent quarters at our reinsurance segment.
A detailed comparison of premiums by segment for 2020, 2019 and 2018 is contained on pages 93, 94 and 100.
Net loss and LAE. The following table presents our consolidated net loss and LAE:
2020 vs 2019. The increase in net loss and LAE in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects Pandemic-related catastrophe losses and, to a lesser extent, the impact of increases in net premiums, all as discussed above.
The catastrophe losses in 2020 include $415.2 million related to the Pandemic and $386.3 million related to other natural catastrophes, which included losses from Hurricane Laura, Hurricane Sally and Puerto Rico earthquakes, compared with $399.7 million of catastrophe losses in 2019, which included losses from Typhoon Hagibis, Typhoon Faxai, civil unrest in Chile and Hurricane Dorian.
2019 vs 2018. The increase in net loss and LAE in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned and lower favorable prior accident year loss reserve development, partially offset by significantly lower catastrophe losses, primarily at our reinsurance segment. Catastrophe losses in 2018 of $657.7 million include losses from Typhoon Jebi, wildfires in California, Hurricane Michael, Hurricane Florence and Typhoon Trami.
A detailed comparison of net loss and LAE by segment for 2020, 2019 and 2018 is contained on pages 94, 95, 96 and 101.
Commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses. The following table presents our consolidated commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses:
2020 vs 2019. The increase in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned, as discussed above, partially offset by lower overall commission rates, lower annual incentive compensation accruals and a Pandemic-driven reduction in travel and entertainment costs.
2019 vs 2018. The increase in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned, partially offset by lower overall commission rates due to a change in the mix of business.
A detailed comparison of commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses by segment for 2020, 2019 and 2018 is contained on pages 96 and 103.
Underwriting profit. The following table presents our consolidated underwriting profit (loss):
2020 vs 2019. The underwriting loss in 2020 compared to the underwriting profit in 2019 primarily reflects Pandemic-related catastrophe losses at our reinsurance segment and, to a lesser extent, RSUI, all as discussed above.
2019 vs 2018. The underwriting profit in 2019 compared with the underwriting loss in 2018 primarily reflects significantly lower catastrophe losses, primarily at our reinsurance segment, and the impact of an increase in net premiums earned, partially offset by lower favorable prior accident year loss reserve development, all as discussed above.
A detailed comparison of underwriting profit by segment for 2020, 2019 and 2018 is contained on pages 97, 103 and 104.
Investment results. The following table presents our consolidated investment results:
2020 vs 2019. The decrease in net investment income in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects lower interest income and, to a lesser extent, lower dividend income. Lower interest income reflects the impact of low reinvestment yields on debt securities and lower yields on short term investments and floating-rate debt securities. Lower dividend income reflects reductions in our equity security portfolio during most of 2020.
The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2020 reflects depreciation in the value of our equity securities portfolio due primarily to the impact of the Pandemic and related economic and financial market disruptions in the spring of 2020, net of a subsequent appreciation on a smaller portfolio from the improved conditions. To a lesser extent, the change in the fair value of equity securities in 2020 reflects depreciation from our holdings in the materials sector.
Net realized capital gains in 2020 primarily reflect realized gains at Alleghany Capital and realized gains on our debt securities portfolio, partially offset by realized losses at corporate activities due primarily to impairment charges from write-downs of SORC oil field assets, prior to SORC’s December 31, 2020 sale. See Note 4(e) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our net realized capital gains and losses.
On July 18, 2019, AIHL purchased an exchange-traded equity derivative index put option, or the “Put Option,” for $38.4 million to hedge the downside equity market risk on approximately $1.0 billion of our equity portfolio. The Put Option did not qualify for hedge accounting. The Put Option expired worthless on December 31, 2019, and the resulting $38.4 million decline in value of the Put Option was recorded as a reduction to net realized capital gains.
Net realized capital losses in 2019 primarily reflect the $38.4 million decline in value of the Put Option and a $13.6 million loss from the December 2019 sale of a privately held investment accounted for under the equity method, partially offset by gains on the sale of debt securities.
The change in allowance for credit losses on available-for-sale, or “AFS,” securities in 2020 reflects $8.0 million of unrealized losses on debt securities, primarily related to the energy sector and lower-quality corporate bonds in other sectors due to a significant decline in their fair value relative to their amortized cost in the spring of 2020, net of a subsequent reduction of the allowance for credit losses on AFS securities arising from the improved bond market conditions and bond sales later in 2020. The change in allowance for credit losses on AFS securities in 2019 primarily reflects the determination that unrealized losses on our debt securities were other than temporary, primarily due to the deterioration of creditworthiness of the issuers in the domestic energy sector. In addition, certain foreign bonds were impaired in 2019 due to a significant decline in fair value.
2019 vs 2018. The increase in net investment income in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects higher interest income, partially offset by lower dividend income. The increase in interest income and the decrease in dividend income primarily relate to a reallocation of a significant portion of our investment portfolio from equity securities to debt securities in the first quarter of 2019.
The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2019 reflects appreciation in the value of our equity securities portfolio, primarily from our holdings in the technology, industrial and financial sectors. The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2018 reflects depreciation in the value of our equity securities portfolio, primarily from our holdings in the energy, consumer, communications and materials sectors, partially offset by appreciation in the value of our equity holdings in the information technology sector.
Net realized capital losses in 2019 primarily reflect the $38.4 million decline in value of the Put Option and a $13.6 million loss from the December 2019 sale of a privately held investment accounted for under the equity method, partially offset by gains on the sale of debt securities. Net realized capital losses in 2018 primarily reflect a $35.4 million capital loss due to an impairment charge from the write-down of certain SORC assets in 2018 arising from a decline in energy prices as of December 31, 2018, as well as losses on the sale of debt securities, partially offset by a $45.7 million gain on AIHL’s conversion of its limited partnership interests in certain subsidiaries of Ares Management LLC, or “Ares,” into Ares common units in 2018.
The increase in change in allowance for credit losses on AFS securities in 2019 from 2018 reflects higher impairment losses for debt securities. Change in allowance for credit losses on AFS securities in 2019 primarily reflects the determination that unrealized losses on our debt securities were other than temporary, primarily due to the deterioration of creditworthiness of the issuers in the domestic energy sector. In addition, certain foreign bonds were impaired in 2019 due to a significant decline in fair value.
A detailed comparison of investment results for 2020, 2019 and 2018 is contained on page 104.
Noninsurance revenue and expenses. The following table presents our consolidated noninsurance revenue and expenses:
Noninsurance revenue and Other operating expenses. Noninsurance revenue and other operating expenses primarily include sales and expenses associated with our Alleghany Capital segment. Other operating expenses also include the long-term incentive compensation of our reinsurance and insurance segments, which totaled $79.1 million, $85.9 million and $49.8 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The decrease in long-term incentive compensation accruals at our reinsurance and insurance segments in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact on expected payouts from poor underwriting results and significant depreciation in the value of our equity portfolio compared with 2019, all as discussed above. The increase in long-term incentive compensation at our reinsurance and insurance segments in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflect a decrease in catastrophe losses at our reinsurance segment and appreciation in the value of our debt and equity securities portfolio in 2019 compared with depreciation in 2018. See Note 14 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on long-term incentive compensation plans.
Other operating expenses in 2020 also include a $6.2 million increase in estimates of expected credit losses on commercial mortgage loans, reinsurance recoverables and premium balances receivable at our reinsurance and insurance segments. This increase was based on current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts as of December 31, 2020, which include the impact of the Pandemic, as discussed above. See Note 1(r), 4(j) and 5(b) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail on credit losses for these assets.
Other operating expenses in 2020 also include $5.6 million of costs incurred in connection with the termination and December 2020 payout of the TransRe executive retirement plan. See Note 15(a) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail.
Other operating expenses in 2019 also include $5.0 million of one-time costs incurred in connection with the July 2019 retirement of CapSpecialty’s Chief Executive Officer and an additional $2.5 million related to the repurchase of certain restricted common stock issued to CapSpecialty management in 2014.
The increases in noninsurance revenue and other operating expenses in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflect the impact of Wilbert’s April 1, 2020 inclusion in our consolidated results, as discussed above, and higher sales at Jazwares, primarily from recent acquisitions, partially offset by lower revenues and related costs at Concord, due to reduced management fee revenue from Pandemic-driven declines in hotel occupancy and Pandemic-related project delays and site closures at Kentucky Trailer, W&W|AFCO Steel and IPS. The increase in other operating expenses in 2020 also reflects the cost of Pandemic-related customer site closures and additional safety measures, all as further discussed below, partially offset by lower long-term incentive compensation accruals at the Alleghany Capital level, as well at our reinsurance and insurance segments, as discussed above.
The increases in noninsurance revenue and other operating expenses in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflect higher sales at IPS, W&W|AFCO Steel and Jazwares, as well as the acquisition of Concord, W&W|AFCO Steel’s acquisition of Hirschfeld and Jazwares’ acquisition of WCT, all as discussed above. The increase in other operating expenses in 2019 from 2018 also reflects increases in long-term compensation at our reinsurance and insurance segments, as discussed above.
Corporate administration. The decrease in corporate administration expense in 2020 from 2019 reflects significantly lower Alleghany parent company long-term incentive compensation accruals due primarily to the impact of depreciation of Alleghany stock price and lower consolidated net earnings attributable to Alleghany stockholders, as discussed below. The decrease was partially offset by the $13.6 million pre-tax impact of the termination and December 2020 payout of the Alleghany parent-level executive retirement plan (see Note 15(a) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail).
The increase in corporate administration expense in 2019 from 2018 reflects higher Alleghany parent company long-term incentive compensation accruals due primarily to the impact of appreciation on the value of our consolidated debt and equity securities portfolios in 2019, compared with depreciation in 2018 and Alleghany stock price appreciation.
Amortization of intangible assets. The increase in amortization expense in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects recent acquisitions by Jazwares and PCT, as well as the impact of Wilbert’s April 1, 2020 inclusion in our consolidated results.
The increase in amortization expense in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the Concord acquisition, Kentucky Trailer’s acquisition of two manufacturers of aluminum feed transportation equipment in December 2018 and July 2019, PCT’s acquisition of a consumable cutting tool manufacturer in June 2019, Jazwares’ acquisition of WCT in October 2019 and IPS’s acquisition in May 2019.
Interest expense. The decrease in interest expense in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact of lower overall interest rates on Alleghany Capital’s floating-rate borrowings, partially offset by the impact of Wilbert’s April 1, 2020 inclusion in our consolidated results. The decrease in interest expense for 2020 also reflects the impact of the early redemption of certain senior notes on January 15, 2020, partially offset by the issuance of certain other senior notes on May 18, 2020. See Note 8(a) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail.
The increase in interest expense in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects borrowings at Concord (primarily used to finance Alleghany Capital’s acquisition of Concord) and incremental debt at Jazwares resulting from the acquisition of WCT, as well as increased borrowings at other Alleghany Capital subsidiaries to support working capital needs and fund recent acquisitions.
A detailed comparison of noninsurance revenue and expenses for 2020, 2019 and 2018 is contained on pages 105 through 107.
Income taxes. The following table presents our consolidated income tax expense:
2020 vs 2019. The decrease in income tax expense in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects lower earnings before income taxes, as further discussed below and, to a lesser extent, a lower effective tax rate. The lower effective tax rate in 2020 primarily reflects lower earnings before income taxes and the resulting increase from the impact of permanent tax benefits, such as tax-exempt interest income and dividends-received deductions, when expressed on an effective tax rate basis.
The Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act, or the “CARES Act,” was signed into law on March 27, 2020. Among other provisions, the CARES Act delayed certain employer payroll tax remittance deadlines and created or expanded certain income tax credits and loss carryback provisions. The beneficial impact of the CARES Act to us is currently not material.
2019 vs 2018. The income taxes in 2019 compared to income tax benefit in 2018 primarily reflect substantially higher earnings before income taxes. The increase in effective tax rate in 2019 compared with 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher earnings before income taxes and, to a lesser extent, lower tax-exempt interest income arising from municipal bond securities and lower dividends-received deductions, partially offset by higher state income taxes.
Net earnings. The following table presents our consolidated earnings:
2020 vs 2019. The decreases in earnings before income taxes and net earnings attributable to Alleghany stockholders in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflect the impact of depreciation in the value of our equity securities portfolio compared with significant appreciation in 2019 and, to a lesser extent, a Pandemic-driven underwriting loss compared with an underwriting profit in 2019, all as discussed above.
The decrease in net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects lower accretion of redeemable noncontrolling interests up to their future estimated redemption value, partially offset by the impact of higher overall earnings at Alleghany Capital subsidiaries with noncontrolling interests. See Note 1(a) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on accretion of redeemable noncontrolling interests.
2019 vs 2018. The increases in earnings before income taxes and net earnings attributable to Alleghany stockholders in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflect appreciation of our equity securities portfolio compared with depreciation in 2018, significantly lower catastrophe losses and, to a lesser extent, profitable growth at Alleghany Capital, partially offset by lower favorable prior accident year loss reserve development and higher long-term incentive compensation expense accruals at the Alleghany parent company and our reinsurance and insurance segments, all as discussed above.
The increase in net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interests in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects profitable growth at Alleghany Capital, as discussed above, as well as the impact of the Concord acquisition.
Reinsurance Segment Underwriting Results
The reinsurance segment is composed of TransRe’s property and casualty & other lines of business. TransRe also writes a modest amount of property and casualty insurance business, which is included in the reinsurance segment. For a more detailed description of our reinsurance segment, see Part I, Item 1, “Business-Segment Information-Reinsurance Segment” of this
Form 10-K.
The following tables present the underwriting results of the reinsurance segment:
(1)
Primarily consists of the following reinsurance lines of business: directors’ and officers’ liability; errors and omissions liability; general liability; medical malpractice; ocean marine and aviation; auto liability; accident & health; mortgage reinsurance; surety; and credit.
(2)
Underwriting profit represents net premiums earned less net loss and LAE and commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses, all as determined in accordance with GAAP, and does not include net investment income, change in the fair value of equity securities, net realized capital gains, change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities, noninsurance revenue, other operating expenses, corporate administration, amortization of intangible assets and interest expense. Underwriting profit is a non-GAAP financial measure and does not replace earnings before income taxes determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of profitability. See “Comment on Non-GAAP Financial Measures” herein for additional detail on the presentation of our results of operations.
(3)
The loss ratio is derived by dividing the amount of net loss and LAE by net premiums earned, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
(4)
The expense ratio is derived by dividing the amount of commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses by net premiums earned, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
(5)
The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. The combined ratio represents the percentage of each premium dollar a reinsurance or an insurance company has to spend on net loss and LAE, and commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses.
Reinsurance Segment: Premiums. The following table presents premiums for the reinsurance segment:
Property. The increase in gross premiums written in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects generally improving rates and growth in non-catastrophe property lines of business and, to a lesser extent, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by a decreased participation in a large, global treaty. Gross premiums written related to the Quota Share Treaty were $280.6 million in 2020 compared with $276.9 million in 2019. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, gross premiums written increased by 3.4 percent in 2020 from 2019.
The increase in net premiums earned in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact of higher gross premiums written and lower ceded premiums written in recent quarters and, to a lesser extent, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, net premiums earned increased by 7.5 percent in 2020 from 2019.
The increase in gross premiums written in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects: (i) higher premiums written by the domestic operations, which include the impact of the Renewal Rights Purchase; and (ii) higher premiums written by the Asia-Pacific and Latin America operations mainly in the property catastrophe lines of business; (iii) partially offset by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Gross premiums written related to the Quota Share Treaty were $276.9 million and $280.8 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, reflecting a reduction of TransRe’s quota share participation. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, gross premiums written increased by 12.0 percent in 2019 from 2018. The increase in net premiums earned in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher gross premiums written, partially offset by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, net premiums earned increased by 10.0 percent in 2019 from 2018.
Casualty & other. The increase in gross premiums written in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects generally improving rates overall and growth in the various traditional casualty and other professional liability lines of business in the U.S. and, to a lesser extent, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, partially offset by decreases in automobile-related business in the U.S. arising from rebates at our cedants in reaction to a Pandemic-driven reduction in personal and commercial automobile usage worldwide. Gross premiums written related to the Quota Share Treaty were $396.1 million and $414.5 million 2020 and 2019, respectively, primarily reflecting a decrease in the automobile-related business. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, gross premiums written increased by 6.8 percent in 2020 from 2019.
The increase in net premiums earned in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact of higher gross premiums written in recent quarters and, to a lesser extent, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, net premiums earned increased by 6.8 percent in 2020 from 2019.
The increase in gross premiums written in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects: (i) higher gross premiums written by the domestic operations, which include the impact of the Renewal Rights Purchase, partially offset by lower gross premiums written related to the Quota Share Treaty; and (ii) higher gross premiums written by the European operations mainly in the auto/motor, marine and accident & health lines of business, partially offset by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Gross premiums written related to the Quota Share Treaty were $414.5 million and $456.8 million in 2019 and 2018, respectively, reflecting a reduction of TransRe’s quota share participation. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates,
gross premiums written increased by 12.0 percent in 2019 from 2018. The increase in net premiums earned in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher gross premiums written and lower ceded premiums in recent quarters due to a decrease in retrocessional coverage purchased in 2019, partially offset by the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Excluding the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, net premiums earned increased by 11.2 percent in 2019 from 2018.
Reinsurance Segment: Net loss and LAE. The following table presents net loss and LAE for the reinsurance segment:
Property. The increase in net loss and LAE in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects significant catastrophe losses and, to a lesser extent, the impact of higher net premiums earned, partially offset by higher favorable prior accident year loss reserve development.
Catastrophe losses in 2020 include $286.4 million of Pandemic-related catastrophe losses, as discussed above, as well as $59.9 million related to Hurricane Laura, $21.6 million related to Hurricane Sally and $19.0 million related to earthquakes in Puerto Rico. Weather-related catastrophe losses in 2020 also include $63.8 million of losses from: (i) typhoons and flooding in Asia; (ii) a derecho in August 2020, which caused widespread property and crop damage, primarily in Iowa; (iii) a hailstorm in Alberta, Canada; (iv) Hurricane Delta; (v) Hurricane Eta; and (vi) Hurricane Zeta. Catastrophe losses in 2019 include $164.6 million related to Typhoon Hagibis, $86.9 million related to Typhoon Faxai, $22.3 million related to civil unrest in Chile, $10.3 million related to Hurricane Dorian and $9.1 million related to other catastrophes.
The decrease in net loss and LAE in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects significantly lower catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses in 2019 are as discussed above. Catastrophe losses in 2018 include $163.2 million related to Typhoon Jebi, $160.6 million related to wildfires in California, $76.7 million related to Hurricane Michael, $31.9 million related to Hurricane Florence, $29.7 million related to Typhoon Trami and $19.7 million related to several severe weather events in East Asia.
Net loss and LAE in 2020, 2019 and 2018 include (favorable) unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development as presented in the table below:
(1)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to Typhoon Hagibis in the 2019 accident year and wildfires in California in the 2017 and 2018 accident years, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to Hurricane Irma in the 2017 accident year and Typhoon Faxai in the 2019 accident year.
(2)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to wildfires in California in the 2018 accident year, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to Typhoon Jebi in the 2018 accident year and Hurricane Irma in 2017 accident year.
(3)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to Hurricane Harvey in the 2017 accident year and catastrophes in the 2016 accident year, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to Hurricanes Maria and Irma in the 2017 accident year.
(4)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the 2017 accident year.
(5)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the 2016 and 2017 accident years, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the 2018 accident year.
(6)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the 2015 and 2016 accident years, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the 2017 accident year.
The favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2020, 2019 and 2018 reflects favorable loss emergence compared with loss emergence patterns assumed in earlier periods. The favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2020 did not impact assumptions used in estimating TransRe’s loss and LAE liabilities for business earned in 2020.
Casualty & other. The increase in net loss and LAE in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects higher catastrophe losses and, to a lesser extent, the impact of higher net premiums earned. Pandemic-related catastrophe losses total $105.4 million in 2020. Catastrophe losses also include $3.7 million from Hurricane Laura, $1.1 million from Hurricane Sally and $5.1 million from other catastrophes. In 2019, catastrophe losses include $3.6 million related to Typhoon Hagibis, $2.9 million related to Hurricane Dorian and $0.9 million related to other catastrophes. Catastrophe losses in 2019 generally related to the marine and nontraditional lines of business.
The increase in net loss and LAE in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned and, to a lesser extent, less favorable prior accident year loss reserve development, partially offset by lower casualty-related catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses in 2019 are as discussed above. Catastrophe losses in 2018 include $4.6 million related to Hurricane Florence, $3.4 million related to Hurricane Michael, $3.1 million related to wildfires in California and $4.0 million related to Typhoon Jebi.
Net loss and LAE in 2020, 2019 and 2018 include (favorable) unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development as presented in the table below:
(1)
Represents certain medical malpractice treaties pursuant to which the increased underwriting profits created by the favorable prior accident year loss reserve development are largely retained by the cedants. As a result, the favorable prior accident year loss reserve development is largely offset by an increase in profit commission expense incurred when such favorable prior accident year loss reserve development occurs.
(2)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the longer-tailed lines of business in the 2014 and earlier accident years and in the shorter-tailed lines of business in the 2017 accident year, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the longer-tailed lines of business in the 2016 to 2018 accident years.
(3)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the longer-tailed casualty lines of business in the 2014 and prior accident years and, to a lesser extent, shorter-tailed lines of business in the 2014 and prior accident years, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the marine and aviation lines of business in the 2018 accident year.
(4)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the longer-tailed casualty lines of business in the 2002 through 2010 accident years and in the shorter-tailed casualty lines of business (specifically, ocean marine, automobile liability and accident & health) in the 2017 accident year, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the professional liability lines of business in the 2015 accident year.
The favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2020, 2019 and 2018 reflects favorable loss emergence compared with loss emergence patterns assumed in earlier periods. The favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2020 did not impact assumptions used in estimating TransRe’s loss and LAE liabilities for business earned in 2020.
Reinsurance Segment: Commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses. The following table presents commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses for the reinsurance segment:
Property. Commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2020 approximated those from 2019, primarily reflecting lower overall commission rates, lower annual incentive compensation accruals and a Pandemic-driven reduction in travel and entertainment costs offset by the impact of higher net premiums earned, as discussed above. The increase in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned, higher overall commission rates due primarily to a change in the mix of business and higher overhead expenses.
Casualty & other. The increase in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned, as discussed above, partially offset by lower overall commission rates, lower annual incentive compensation accruals and a Pandemic-driven reduction in travel and entertainment costs. The increase in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned and, to a lesser extent, higher overhead costs, partially offset by lower overall commission rates due primarily to a change in the mix of business.
Reinsurance Segment: Underwriting profit. The following table presents our underwriting (loss) profit for the reinsurance segment:
Property. The increase in underwriting loss in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects significantly higher catastrophe losses, which include losses related to the Pandemic, as discussed above. The decrease in underwriting loss in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects lower catastrophe losses, as discussed above.
Casualty & other. The decrease in underwriting profit in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects casualty-related Pandemic catastrophe losses, as discussed above. The decrease in underwriting profit in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects less favorable prior accident year loss reserve development, partially offset by the impact of higher net premiums earned, all as discussed above.
Insurance Segment Underwriting Results
The insurance segment is composed of AIHL’s RSUI and CapSpecialty operating subsidiaries. RSUI also writes a modest amount of assumed reinsurance business, which is included in the insurance segment. For a more detailed description of our insurance segment, see Part I, Item 1, “Business-Segment Information-Insurance Segment” of this Form 10-K.
The following tables present the underwriting results of the insurance segment:
(1)
Underwriting profit represents net premiums earned less net loss and LAE and commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses, all as determined in accordance with GAAP, and does not include net investment income, change in the fair value of equity securities, net realized capital gains, change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities, noninsurance revenue, other operating expenses, corporate administration, amortization of intangible assets and interest expense. Underwriting profit is a non-GAAP financial measure and does not replace earnings before income taxes determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of profitability. See “Comment on Non-GAAP Financial Measures” herein for additional detail on the presentation of our results of operations.
(2)
The loss ratio is derived by dividing the amount of net loss and LAE by net premiums earned, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
(3)
The expense ratio is derived by dividing the amount of commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses by net premiums earned, all as determined in accordance with GAAP.
(4)
The combined ratio is the sum of the loss ratio and the expense ratio, all as determined in accordance with GAAP. The combined ratio represents the percentage of each premium dollar a reinsurance or an insurance company has to spend on net loss and LAE, and commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses.
Insurance Segment: Premiums. The following table presents premiums for the insurance segment:
RSUI. The increase in gross premiums written in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects growth in most lines of business due to increases in business opportunities, higher rates and improved general market conditions, particularly in the property, directors’ and officers’ liability and umbrella/excess lines of business. The increase in gross premiums written in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects growth in most lines of business due to increases in business opportunities, higher rates and improved general market conditions, particularly in the property lines of business and, to a lesser extent, the directors’ and officers’ liability lines of business.
The increases in net premiums earned in 2020 from 2019 and in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflect increases in gross premiums written in recent quarters, partially offset by higher ceded premiums earned related to the growth in the heavily-reinsured property lines of business.
CapSpecialty. The increase in gross premiums written in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects growth in the professional liability and healthcare lines of business due to increases in business opportunities and higher rates, CapSpecialty’s expanded product offerings and the impact of CapSpecialty’s purchases of certain renewal rights in September 2019 and May 2020, partially offset by a curtailment of certain unprofitable broker relationships.
The increase in gross premiums written in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects growth in the healthcare, professional liability, specialty casualty and surety lines of business due to increases in business opportunities and CapSpecialty’s expanded product offerings, and the impact of CapSpecialty’s February 2018 purchase of certain renewal rights to a small environmental liability block of business. To a lesser extent, the increase in gross premiums written in 2019 from 2018 also reflects the impact of CapSpecialty’s September 2019 purchase of certain renewal rights associated with a small lawyer’s professional liability block of business.
The increases in net premiums earned in 2020 from 2019 and in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflect increases in gross premiums written.
Insurance Segment: Net loss and LAE. The following table presents net loss and LAE for the insurance segment:
RSUI. The increase in net loss and LAE in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects higher catastrophe losses and the impact of higher net premiums earned. The increase in net loss and LAE in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects lower favorable prior accident year loss reserve development and the impact of higher net premiums earned, partially offset by lower catastrophe losses.
Catastrophe losses in 2020 include $69.9 million from Hurricane Sally, $50.6 million from Hurricane Laura and $20.3 million of Pandemic losses, which primarily relate to business interruption and related estimated legal expenses. Catastrophe losses in 2020 also include losses from severe weather and flooding in the Southeastern U.S. in the spring of 2020, which included a tornado in Tennessee, as well as Hurricane Zeta and Hurricane Delta in October 2020. Catastrophe losses in 2019 primarily consist of severe weather and flooding in the Midwestern and Southwestern U.S. and, to a lesser extent, typhoons in Japan. Catastrophe losses in 2018 include $55.1 million related to Hurricane Michael, $33.8 million from Hurricane Florence and $17.4 million related to wildfires in California, as well as losses related to flooding and severe weather in the Northeastern U.S. and California and typhoons in Japan.
Net loss and LAE in 2020, 2019 and 2018 include (favorable) unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development as presented in the table below:
(1)
Primarily reflects unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the professional liability lines of business in the 2017 through 2019 accident years, partially offset by favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the directors’ and officers’ liability and umbrella/excess lines of business in the 2011 through 2015 accident years.
(2)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the directors’ and officers’ liability and umbrella/excess lines of business in the 2011 through 2015 accident years, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the professional liability lines of business in the 2016 through 2018 accident years.
(3)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the umbrella/excess lines of business in the 2005 through 2012 accident years, partially offset by unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the directors’ and officers’ liability lines of business in the 2009, 2012 and 2016 accident years.
(4)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to U.S. catastrophe losses in the 2018 accident year and, to a lesser extent, favorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to the assumed property reinsurance lines of business from catastrophe losses in the 2019 and 2018 accident years.
(5)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to Superstorm Sandy in the 2012 accident year, Hurricanes Florence and Michael in the 2018 accident year and Hurricanes Harvey and Maria in the 2017 accident year, partially offset by assumed property reinsurance lines of business from both catastrophe and non-catastrophe losses in the 2018 accident year.
(6)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development related to Hurricane Irma in the 2017 accident year and, to a lesser extent, Hurricane Matthew in the 2016 accident year, as well as various other losses not classified as catastrophes in recent accident years.
The favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2020, 2019 and 2018 reflects favorable loss emergence compared with loss emergence patterns assumed in earlier periods. The favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2020 did not impact assumptions used in estimating RSUI’s loss and LAE liabilities for business earned in 2020.
CapSpecialty. The decrease in net loss and LAE in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects substantial unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2019, partially offset by the impact of higher net premiums earned, higher current accident year losses and $3.1 million of Pandemic-related catastrophe losses. The increase in net loss and LAE in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2019, compared with favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2018, the impact of higher net premiums earned and, to a lesser extent, an increase in initial loss estimates in the current accident year.
Net loss and LAE in 2020, 2019 and 2018 include (favorable) unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development as presented in the table below:
(1)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year development related to the surety lines of business from recent accident years.
(2)
Primarily reflects unfavorable prior accident loss reserve development related to the professional liability and other casualty lines of business in the 2015 through 2018 accident years.
(3)
Primarily reflects favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in the surety lines of business in the 2016 and 2017 accident years.
(4)
Represents certain specialty lines of business written through a program administrator in connection with a terminated program in the 2010 and 2009 accident years and reflects favorable loss emergence compared with loss emergence patterns assumed in earlier periods for such business.
The favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2020 reflects favorable loss emergence compared with loss emergence patterns assumed in earlier periods. The favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2020 did not impact the assumptions used in estimating CapSpecialty’s loss and LAE liabilities for business earned in 2020.
Insurance Segment: Commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses. The following table presents commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses for the insurance segment:
RSUI. The increase in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned, as discussed above, partially offset by lower overall commission rates and a Pandemic-driven reduction in travel and entertainment costs. The increase in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned, partially offset by slightly lower overall commission rates due primarily to a change in the mix of business.
CapSpecialty. The increases in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflect the impact of higher net premiums earned, higher overall commission rates and investments in technology. The increase in commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the impact of higher net premiums earned, partially offset by one-time acquisition expenses incurred in 2018 from CapSpecialty’s purchase of certain renewal rights associated with a small environmental liability block of business and lower short-term incentive compensation expense accruals.
Insurance Segment: Underwriting profit. The following table presents our underwriting profit (loss) for the insurance segment:
RSUI. The decrease in underwriting profit in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects higher catastrophe losses, as discussed above. The increase in underwriting profit in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects lower catastrophe losses and the impact of higher net premiums earned, partially offset by lower favorable prior accident year loss reserve development, all as discussed above.
CapSpecialty. The decrease in underwriting loss in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects substantial unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2019, partially offset by higher current accident year losses, Pandemic-related losses and higher commissions, brokerage and other underwriting expenses, all as discussed above. The underwriting loss in 2019 compared with the underwriting profit in 2018 primarily reflects unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2019, compared with favorable prior accident year loss reserve development in 2018, as discussed above.
Investment Results for the Reinsurance and Insurance Segments
The following table presents the investment results for our reinsurance and insurance segments:
Net Investment Income. The decrease in net investment income in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects lower interest income and, to a lesser extent, lower dividend income. Lower interest income reflects the impact of low reinvestment yields on debt securities and lower yields on short term investments and floating-rate debt securities. Lower dividend income reflects reductions in our equity security portfolio during most of 2020.
The increase in net investment income in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects higher interest income, partially offset by lower dividend income. The increase in interest income and the decrease in dividend income primarily relate to a reallocation of a significant portion of our investment portfolio from equity securities to debt securities in the first quarter of 2019.
Change in the fair value of equity securities. The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2020 reflects depreciation in the value of our equity securities portfolio due primarily to the impact of the Pandemic and related economic and financial market disruptions in the spring of 2020, net of a subsequent appreciation on a smaller portfolio from the improved conditions. The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2019 reflects appreciation in the value of our equity securities portfolio, primarily from our holdings in the technology, industrial and financial sectors. The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2018 reflects depreciation in the value of our equity securities portfolio, primarily from our holdings in the energy, consumer, communications and materials sectors, partially offset by appreciation in the value of our equity holdings in the information technology sector.
Net Realized Capital Gains. The increase in net realized gains in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects higher realized gains from the sale of our debt securities and the $38.4 million decline in value of the Put Option in 2019.
Net realized capital gains in 2019 primarily reflect gains on the sale of debt securities, partially offset by the $38.4 million decline in value of the Put Option in 2019. Net realized capital gains in 2018 primarily reflect a $45.7 million gain on AIHL’s conversion of its limited partnership interests in certain subsidiaries of Ares into Ares common units in 2018, partially offset by losses on the sale of debt securities.
Change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities. The change in allowance for credit losses on AFS securities in 2020 reflects $8.0 million of unrealized losses on debt securities, primarily related to the energy sector and lower-quality corporate bonds in other sectors due to a significant decline in their fair value relative to their amortized cost in the spring of 2020, net of a subsequent reduction of the allowance for credit losses on AFS securities arising from the improved bond market conditions and bond sales later in 2020.
The change in allowance for credit losses on AFS securities in 2019 reflects $19.7 million of unrealized losses on debt securities, primarily in the energy sector, primarily due to the deterioration of creditworthiness of the issuers. In addition, certain foreign bonds were impaired due to a significant decline in fair value.
The change in allowance for credit losses on AFS securities in 2018 reflects $1.3 million of unrealized losses on debt securities, primarily in the energy and industrial sectors, primarily due to the deterioration of creditworthiness of the issuers.
See Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail on credit losses, credit quality and gross unrealized investment losses for debt securities as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Alleghany Capital Segment Results
The Alleghany Capital segment consists of: (i) industrial operations conducted through PCT, Kentucky Trailer, W&W|AFCO Steel and Wilbert beginning April 1, 2020; (ii) non-industrial operations conducted through IPS, Jazwares and Concord beginning October 1, 2018 (the date on which Alleghany Capital acquired approximately 85 percent of the equity thereof); and (iii) corporate operations at the Alleghany Capital level, which include certain hotel development projects. On April 1, 2020, Alleghany Capital acquired an additional approximately 55 percent of Wilbert it previously did not own, bringing its equity interest in Wilbert to approximately 100 percent, and as of that date, the results of Wilbert were included in our consolidated results. Prior to April 1, 2020, Wilbert was accounted for under the equity method of accounting and was included in other assets.
The following tables present the results of the Alleghany Capital segment for 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(1)
For industrial and non-industrial operations: (i) noninsurance revenue consists of the sale of manufactured goods and services; and (ii) other operating expenses consist of the cost of goods and services sold and selling, general and administrative expenses. Other operating expenses also include finders’ fees, legal and accounting costs and other transaction-related expenses of $5.0 million, $4.1 million and $7.7 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(2)
Adjusted earnings before income taxes is a non-GAAP financial measure and does not replace earnings before income taxes determined in accordance with GAAP as a measure of profitability. See “Comment on Non-GAAP Financial Measures” herein for additional detail on the presentation of our results of operations. Adjusted earnings before income taxes represents noninsurance revenue and net investment income less other operating expenses and interest expense and does not include: (i) amortization of intangible assets; (ii) change in the fair value of equity securities; (iii) net realized capital gains; (iv) change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities; and (v) income taxes.
The changes in Alleghany Capital’s equity for 2020, 2019 and 2018 are presented in the table below:
(1)
Federal income taxes for most Alleghany Capital subsidiaries are incurred at the Alleghany Capital corporate level. Estimated federal income tax (expense) benefit incurred at the Alleghany Capital corporate level attributable to industrial and non-industrial operations for 2020 was ($11.4) million and ($14.6) million, respectively, for 2019 was ($10.5) million and ($16.5) million, respectively, and for 2018 was ($5.3) million and ($9.4) million, respectively.
(2)
During 2020, the noncontrolling interests outstanding were approximately as follows: Kentucky Trailer - 23 percent; W&W|AFCO Steel - 20 percent; IPS - 15 percent; Jazwares - 24 percent; and Concord - 15 percent. Prior to April 1, 2019, the noncontrolling interests of PCT were approximately 11 percent. All noncontrolling interest holders of PCT have exercised their repurchase options and sold their ownership interests to PCT effective April 1, 2019.
(3)
For 2020, capital contributions primarily reflect funding provided by: (i) Alleghany Capital to PCT for its acquisition of a manufacturer of high-performance carbide end mills in March 2020; (ii) Alleghany Capital to Jazwares for its acquisition of Kelly Toy that closed on April 1, 2020; and (iii) Alleghany to Alleghany Capital for its purchase of an additional approximately 55 percent of Wilbert it previously did not own that closed on April 1, 2020. For 2019, capital contributions primarily reflect funding provided by Alleghany Capital to PCT for the acquisition of a consumable cutting tool manufacturer. For 2018, capital contributions primarily reflect funding provided by Alleghany to Alleghany Capital for the acquisition of Concord and funding provided by Alleghany Capital for the acquisition of Hirschfeld by W&W|AFCO Steel.
Noninsurance revenue. The increase in noninsurance revenue in 2020 from 2019 reflects higher industrial and non-industrial operations revenues. The increase in industrial noninsurance revenue in 2020 primarily reflects the impact of Wilbert’s April 1, 2020 inclusion in our consolidated results, as discussed above, as well as Wilbert’s revenue growth, partially offset by Pandemic-related project delays and customer site closures at W&W|AFCO Steel during 2020 and slower orders for industrial capital equipment and services at Kentucky Trailer.
The increase in non-industrial noninsurance revenue reflects higher sales at Jazwares, partially offset by lower noninsurance revenue at Concord, due to reduced management fee revenue from Pandemic-driven declines in hotel occupancy, and IPS, due to Pandemic-related project delays and customer site closures. The increase in Jazwares primarily reflects the impact of acquisitions of Kelly Toy in April 2020 and WCT in October 2019, partially offset by the acquisition of a major new video game license in the fourth quarter of 2018, which positively impacted sales in 2019 and Pandemic-related temporary shelter in place orders, disruptions to shipping schedules and store closures in 2020.
The increase in noninsurance revenue in 2019 from 2018 reflects increases in non-industrial and industrial operations. The increase in non-industrial noninsurance revenue reflects higher sales at IPS and Jazwares, as well as the acquisition of Concord. The higher sales at IPS are due to organic growth and the impact of an acquisition in May 2019. Higher sales at Jazwares are due primarily to the impact of a major new video game license in the fourth quarter of 2018 and the acquisition of WCT on October 1, 2019. The increase in industrial noninsurance revenue primarily reflects organic sales growth at W&W|AFCO Steel and its acquisition of Hirschfeld on February 7, 2018 and, to a lesser extent, the impact of Kentucky Trailer’s acquisition of two manufacturers of aluminum feed transportation equipment in December 2018 and July 2019.
Net investment income. The decrease in net investment income in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflect a cessation of equity income from Wilbert upon Wilbert’s April 1, 2020 inclusion in our consolidated results, as discussed above. The increase in net investment income in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects Alleghany Capital’s earnings from its investment in Wilbert, due to higher earnings at Wilbert.
Net realized capital gains. Net realized capital gains in 2020 include: (i) $15.0 million on a partial settlement and remeasurement of fair value of certain outstanding contingent consideration liabilities by Alleghany Capital in connection with its 2018 acquisition of Concord; (ii) a $16.3 million gain on April 1, 2020 in connection with Alleghany Capital’s acquisition of an additional approximately 55 percent of Wilbert that it did not previously own, and the remeasurement of its pre-existing approximately 45 percent equity ownership to its estimated fair value; and (iii) a $5.0 million gain from a reduction of certain contingent consideration liabilities at the PCT-level in connection with its acquisition of a provider of high-performance solid carbide end mills in June 2019.
Other operating expenses. The increase in other operating expenses in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects an increase in costs related to higher revenues in industrial and non-industrial operations, as described above, and the cost of Pandemic-related safety measures undertaken in 2020. To a lesser extent, the increase in other operating expenses in 2020 reflected an increase in finders’ fees, legal and accounting costs and other transaction-related expenses, partially offset by lower incentive compensation accruals in Alleghany Capital’s corporate operations.
The increase in other operating expenses in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects increases in non-industrial and industrial operations. The increase in non-industrial other operating expenses primarily reflects higher costs related to higher sales at IPS and Jazwares, as well as the impact of the acquisitions of Concord and WCT, partially offset by the impact of certain Toys “R” Us Inc. liquidation-related charges in early 2018. The increase in industrial other operating expenses primarily reflects higher costs related to higher sales at W&W|AFCO Steel, including the impact of W&W|AFCO Steel’s acquisition of Hirschfeld in 2018, and, to a lesser extent, Kentucky Trailer due to higher sales, partially offset by the impact of certain facility consolidation activities at Kentucky Trailer in 2018. The increase in other operating expenses in 2019 from 2018 also relates, to a lesser extent, to higher employee costs, including incentive compensation, in Alleghany Capital’s corporate operations.
Other operating expenses in 2020, 2019 and 2018 also reflect finders’ fees, legal and accounting costs and other transaction-related expenses, primarily related to Alleghany Capital’s April 1, 2020 acquisition of an additional approximately 55 percent of Wilbert it previously did not own, Jazwares’ acquisition of Kelly Toy in April 2020 and WCT in October 2019, the acquisition by PCT of a consumable cutting tool manufacturer in June 2019, the acquisitions by Kentucky Trailer of two manufacturers of aluminum feed transportation equipment in December 2018 and July 2019, Alleghany Capital’s acquisition of Concord in 2018 and W&W|AFCO Steel’s acquisition of Hirschfeld in 2018. Finders’ fees, legal and accounting costs and other transaction-related expenses were $5.0 million, $4.1 million and $7.7 million for 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Amortization of intangible assets. The increase in amortization expense in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects recent acquisitions by Jazwares and PCT, as well as the impact of Wilbert’s April 1, 2020 inclusion in our consolidated results, as discussed above. The increase in amortization expense in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects the Concord acquisition, Kentucky Trailer’s acquisition of two manufacturers of aluminum feed transportation equipment in December 2018 and July 2019, PCT’s acquisition of a consumable cutting tool manufacturer in June 2019, Jazwares’ acquisition of WCT in October 2019 and IPS’s acquisition in May 2019.
Interest expense. The decrease in interest expense in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact of lower overall interest rates on floating-rate borrowings, partially offset by the impact of Wilbert’s April 1, 2020 inclusion in our consolidated results, as discussed above, and Jazwares acquisition of Kelly Toy. The increase in interest expense in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects borrowings at Concord (primarily used to finance Alleghany Capital’s acquisition of Concord), increases in debt related to the acquisition of WCT, as well as increased borrowings at other Alleghany Capital subsidiaries to support working capital needs and fund acquisitions made during 2018 and 2019.
Earnings (losses) before income taxes. The increase in earnings before income taxes in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects net realized capital gains and lower incentive compensation accruals in Alleghany Capital’s corporate operations and, to a lesser extent, an increase in industrial earnings before income taxes, partially offset by a decrease in non-industrial earnings before income taxes. Higher industrial earnings before income taxes in 2020 primarily reflects the impact of Wilbert’s April 1, 2020 inclusion in our consolidated results and revenue growth, as discussed above and, to a lesser extent, higher margins at W&W|AFCO Steel, partially offset by the impact of lower sales and margins at Kentucky Trailer.
The decrease in non-industrial earnings before income taxes reflects the Pandemic-related impact on revenue and margins at Concord, partially offset by the impact of higher sales at Jazwares, all as discussed above.
The increase in earnings before income taxes in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects increased earnings in the non-industrial and industrial operations. The increase in non-industrial earnings before income taxes primarily reflects the impact of higher sales at Jazwares (due in part to its acquisition of WCT) and, to a lesser extent, the acquisition of Concord and higher sales at IPS, all as discussed above. The increase in industrial earnings before income taxes primarily reflects higher sales and higher margins at W&W|AFCO Steel and, to a lesser extent, higher sales at Kentucky Trailer, all as discussed above.
Corporate Activities Results
The primary components of corporate activities are Alleghany Properties, activities at the Alleghany parent company and, prior to its December 31, 2020 sale, SORC. The following table presents the results for corporate activities:
Net investment income. The increase in net investment income in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects higher partnership income. The decrease in net investment income in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects lower dividend income resulting from a portfolio reallocation (as further described below) and, to a lesser extent, lower partnership income, partially offset by higher interest income.
Change in the fair value of equity securities. The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2020 reflects depreciation in the value of equity securities at the Alleghany parent company-level, primarily in the materials sector, and a significant depreciation due primarily to the impact of the Pandemic, as discussed above. In the first quarter of 2019, a substantial portion of our investment portfolio at the Alleghany parent company-level was reallocated from equity securities to debt securities. The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2019 reflects appreciation in the value of the equity securities held at the Alleghany parent company-level, primarily from holdings in the technology sector, prior to this reallocation. The change in the fair value of equity securities in 2018 reflects depreciation of the equity securities held at the Alleghany parent company-level, primarily from holdings in the energy sector.
Net realized capital losses. The net realized capital losses in 2020 primarily reflect $76.0 million from the write-down of SORC oil field assets. In the first half of 2020, SORC’s oil field assets were written down to estimated fair value, which primarily reflected a significant decline in oil prices, less costs to sell. In the second half of 2020, SORC’s oil field assets were sold at values that approximated their reduced carrying values. SORC was sold on December 31, 2020.
The net realized capital losses in 2020 also include a $7.1 million realized loss as a result of an early redemption of certain senior notes as of January 15, 2020. See Note 8(a) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on this early redemption. Net realized capital losses in 2019 primarily reflects a $13.6 million loss from the December 2019 sale of a privately held investment accounted for under the equity method. Net realized capital losses in 2018 primarily reflect a $35.4 million capital loss due to an impairment charge from the write-down of certain SORC assets arising from a decline in energy prices as of December 31, 2018.
Noninsurance revenue. The decrease in noninsurance revenue in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects lower energy sales at SORC, due to a significant decline in oil prices and the impact of the sale of SORC’s oil field assets in the second half of 2020, partially offset by higher property sales at Alleghany Properties. The decrease in noninsurance revenue in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects lower property sales at Alleghany Properties. Noninsurance revenue in 2018 includes the sale in September 2018 of 68 acres of land located in Sacramento, California for approximately $20 million.
Other operating expenses. The decrease in other operating expenses in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflect reduced costs at SORC, which were due primarily to the impact of the sale of SORC’s oil field assets in the second half of 2020. The decrease in other operating expenses in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects reduced costs at SORC and Alleghany Properties.
Corporate administration. The decrease in corporate administration expense in 2020 from 2019 reflects significantly lower Alleghany parent company long-term incentive compensation accruals due primarily to the impact of depreciation of Alleghany stock price and lower consolidated net earnings attributable to Alleghany stockholders, as discussed below. The decrease was partially offset by the $13.6 million pre-tax impact of the termination and December 2020 payout of the Alleghany parent-level executive retirement plan (see Note 15(a) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail).
The increase in corporate administration expense in 2019 from 2018 reflects higher Alleghany parent company long-term incentive compensation accruals due primarily to the impact of appreciation in the value of our consolidated debt and equity securities portfolios in 2019, compared with depreciation in 2018 and Alleghany stock price appreciation.
Interest expense. The decrease in interest expense in 2020 from 2019 primarily reflects the impact of the early redemption of certain senior notes on January 15, 2020, partially offset by the issuance of certain other senior notes on May 18, 2020. See Note 8(a) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information. The slight variance in interest expense in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects changes in crediting rates on deferred compensation at the Alleghany parent company.
Losses before income taxes. The increase in losses before income taxes in 2020 reflects significant realized capital losses, primarily from the write-down of SORC oil field assets, and significant depreciation in the value of the equity securities held at the Alleghany parent company-level, partially offset by the impact of lower corporate administration expense and higher net investment income, all as discussed above. The increase in losses before income taxes in 2019 from 2018 primarily reflects higher corporate administration expense and lower property sales at Alleghany Properties, partially offset by appreciation in the value of the equity securities held at the Alleghany parent company-level compared with depreciation in 2018, all as discussed above.
Reserve Review Process
Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries analyze, at least quarterly, liabilities for unpaid loss and LAE established in prior years and adjust their expected ultimate cost, where necessary, to reflect favorable or unfavorable development in loss experience and new information, including, for certain catastrophe events, revised industry estimates of the magnitude of a catastrophe. Adjustments to previously recorded liabilities for unpaid loss and LAE, both favorable and unfavorable, are reflected in our financial results in the periods in which these adjustments are made and are referred to as prior accident year loss reserve development. The following table presents the reserves established in connection with the loss and LAE of our reinsurance and insurance segments on a gross and net basis by line of business. These reserve amounts represent the accumulation of estimates of ultimate loss (including for IBNR) and LAE.
(1)
Primarily consists of the following reinsurance lines of business: directors’ and officers’ liability; errors and omissions liability; general liability; medical malpractice; ocean marine and aviation; auto liability; accident & health; mortgage reinsurance; surety; asbestos-related illness and environmental impairment liability; and credit.
(2)
Primarily consists of the following direct lines of business: umbrella/excess; directors’ and officers’ liability; professional liability; and general liability.
(3)
Primarily consists of commercial multi-peril and surety lines of business, as well as loss and LAE reserves for terminated lines of business and loss reserves acquired in connection with prior acquisitions for which the sellers provided loss reserve guarantees.
Changes in Gross and Net Loss and LAE Reserves between December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Gross and net loss and LAE reserves as of December 31, 2020 increased from December 31, 2019, primarily reflecting the impact of growing net premiums earned and catastrophe losses incurred in 2020, partially offset by payments on catastrophe losses incurred primarily in 2017, 2018 and 2019 and favorable prior accident year loss reserve development, all as discussed above. The 2020 catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, include $415.2 million related to the Pandemic, $114.2 million related to Hurricane Laura and $92.6 million related to Hurricane Sally and $19.1 million related to earthquakes in Puerto Rico.
Changes in Gross and Net Loss and LAE Reserves between December 31, 2019 and December 31, 2018. Gross and net loss and LAE reserves as of December 31, 2019 decreased from December 31, 2018, primarily reflecting payments on catastrophe losses incurred in 2017 and 2018 and favorable prior accident year loss reserve development, partially offset by the impact of growing net premiums earned and catastrophe losses incurred in 2019. The 2019 catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, include $183.7 million related to Typhoon Hagibis, $95.4 million related to Typhoon Faxai, $22.3 million related to civil unrest in Chile and $13.6 million related to Hurricane Dorian.
Reinsurance Recoverables
Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries reinsure portions of the risks they underwrite in order to reduce the effect of individual or aggregate exposure to losses, manage capacity, protect capital resources, reduce volatility in specific lines of business, improve risk-adjusted portfolio returns and enable them to increase gross premiums writings and risk capacity without requiring additional capital. Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries generally purchase reinsurance and retrocessional coverages from highly-rated third-party reinsurers or on a collateralized basis. If the assuming reinsurers are unable or unwilling to meet the obligations assumed under the applicable reinsurance agreements, our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries would remain liable for such reinsurance portion not paid by these reinsurers. As such, funds, trust agreements and letters of credit are held to collateralize a portion of our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries’ reinsurance recoverables, and our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries reinsure portions of the risks they underwrite or assume with multiple reinsurance programs.
As of December 31, 2020, our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries had total reinsurance recoverables of $1,781.1 million, consisting of $1,703.7 million of ceded outstanding loss and LAE and $85.3 million of recoverables on paid losses, less $7.9 million of an allowance for credit losses. See Part I, Item 1, “Business - Reinsurance Protection” of this Form 10-K for additional information on the reinsurance purchased by our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries and Note 5 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on: (i) the reinsurance purchased by our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries; (ii) the allowance for credit losses; (iii) the concentration of our reinsurance recoverables; and (iv) the ratings profile of our reinsurers.
Critical Accounting Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that directly affect our reported financial condition and operating performance. More specifically, these estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We rely on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances to make judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities and reported revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ materially from reported results to the extent that estimates and assumptions prove to be inaccurate.
We believe our most critical accounting estimates are those with respect to the liability for unpaid loss and LAE reserves, fair value measurements of certain financial assets, change in allowance for credit losses on available for sale securities, goodwill and other intangible assets and reinsurance premium revenues, as they require management’s most significant exercise of judgment on both a quantitative and qualitative basis. The accounting estimates that result require the use of assumptions about certain matters that are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. To the extent actual experience differs from the assumptions used, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows would be affected, possibly materially.
Unpaid Loss and LAE
Overview. The estimation of the liability for unpaid loss and LAE is inherently difficult and subjective, especially in view of changing legal and economic environments that impact the development of loss reserves, and therefore, quantitative techniques frequently have to be supplemented by subjective considerations and managerial judgment. In addition, trends that have affected development of liabilities in the past may not necessarily occur or affect liability development to the same degree in the future.
Each of our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries establishes reserves on its balance sheet for unpaid loss and LAE related to its property and casualty reinsurance and insurance contracts. As of any balance sheet date, there are claims that have not been reported, and some claims may not be reported for many years after the date a loss occurs. As a result of this historical pattern, the liability for unpaid loss and LAE includes significant estimates for IBNR claims. Additionally, reported claims are in various stages of the settlement process. Each claim is settled individually based upon its merits, and certain claims may take years to settle, especially if legal action is involved. As a result, the liabilities for unpaid loss and LAE include significant judgments, assumptions and estimates made by management related to the actual ultimate losses that will arise from the claims. Due to the inherent uncertainties in the process of establishing these liabilities, the actual ultimate loss from a claim is likely to differ, perhaps materially, from the liability initially recorded.
As noted above, as of any balance sheet date, not all claims that have occurred have been reported to us, and if reported may not have been settled. The time period between the occurrence of a loss and the time it is settled is referred to as the “claim tail.” In general, actuarial judgments for shorter-tailed lines of business normally have much less of an effect on the determination of the loss reserve amount than when those same judgments are made regarding longer-tailed lines of business. Reported losses for the shorter-tailed classes, such as property classes, generally reach the ultimate level of incurred losses in a relatively short period of time. Rather than having to rely on actuarial assumptions for many accident years, these assumptions are generally only relevant for the more recent accident years. Therefore, these assumptions tend to be less critical and the reserves calculated pursuant to these assumptions are subject to less variability for the shorter-tailed lines of business.
For short-tail lines, loss reserves primarily consist of reserves for reported claims. The process of recording quarterly and annual liabilities for unpaid loss and LAE for short-tail lines is primarily focused on maintaining an appropriate reserve level for reported claims and IBNR. Specifically, we assess the reserve adequacy of IBNR in light of such factors as the current levels of reserves for reported claims and expectations with respect to reporting lags, catastrophe events, historical data, legal developments and economic conditions, including the effects of inflation.
Standard actuarial methodologies employed to estimate ultimate losses incorporate the inherent lag from the time claims occur to when they are reported to an insurer and, if applicable, to when an insurer reports the claims to a reinsurer. Certain actuarial methodologies may be more appropriate than others in instances where this lag may not be consistent from period to period. Consequently, additional actuarial judgment is employed in the selection of methodologies to best incorporate the potential impact of this situation.
Our insurance operating subsidiaries provide coverage on both a claims-made and occurrence basis. Claims-made policies generally require that claims occur and be reported during the coverage period of the policy. Occurrence policies allow claims which occur during a policy’s coverage period to be reported after the coverage period, and as a result, these claims can have a very long claim tail, occasionally extending for decades. Casualty claims can have a very long claim tail, in certain situations extending for many years. In addition, casualty claims are more susceptible to litigation and the legal environment and can be significantly affected by changing contract interpretations, all of which contribute to extending the claim tail. For long-tail casualty lines of business, estimating the ultimate liabilities for unpaid loss and LAE is a more complex process and depends on a
number of factors, including the line and volume of the business involved. For these reasons, our insurance operating subsidiaries will generally use actuarial projections in setting reserves for all casualty lines of business.
While the reserving process is difficult for insurance business, the inherent uncertainties of estimating loss reserves are even greater for reinsurance business, due primarily to the longer-tailed nature of most of the reinsurance business, the diversity of development patterns among different types of reinsurance contracts, the necessary reliance on the ceding companies for information regarding reported claims and differing reserving practices among ceding companies, which can be subject to change without notice. TransRe writes a significant amount of non-proportional assumed casualty reinsurance as well as proportional assumed reinsurance of excess liability business for classes such as medical malpractice, directors’ and officers’ liability, errors and omissions liability and general liability. Claims from such classes can exhibit greater volatility over time than most other classes due to their low frequency, high severity nature and loss cost trends that are more difficult to predict.
The estimation of unpaid loss and LAE for our reinsurance operations is principally based on reports and individual case estimates received from ceding companies. Data received from cedants is audited periodically by TransRe’s claims and underwriting personnel, to help ensure that reported data is supported by proper documentation and conforms to contract terms, and is analyzed, as appropriate, by its underwriting and actuarial personnel. Such analysis often includes a detailed review of reported data to assess the underwriting results of assumed reinsurance and to explain any significant departures from expected performance. Over time, reported loss information is ultimately corroborated when the underlying claims are paid.
In addition, the estimation of unpaid loss and LAE, including IBNR, for our reinsurance operations also takes into account assumptions with respect to many factors that will affect ultimate loss costs but are not yet known. The process by which actual carried reserves are determined considers not only actuarial estimates but a myriad of other factors. Such factors, both internal and external, which contribute to the variability and unpredictability of loss costs, include trends related to jury awards, social trends, medical inflation, worldwide economic conditions, tort reforms, judicial interpretations of coverages, the regulatory environment, underlying policy pricing, terms and conditions and claims handling, among others. In addition, information gathered through underwriting and claims audits is also considered. We assess the reasonableness of our unpaid loss and LAE for our reinsurance operations using various actuarial methodologies, principally the paid development method, the reported loss development method and the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method as described below.
In conformity with GAAP, our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries are not permitted to establish reserves for catastrophe losses that have not occurred. Therefore, losses related to a significant catastrophe, or accumulation of catastrophes, in any reporting period could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition during that period.
We believe that the reserves for unpaid loss and LAE established by our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries are adequate as of December 31, 2020; however, additional reserves, which could have a material impact upon our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, may be necessary in the future.
Methodologies and Assumptions. Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries use a variety of techniques that employ significant judgments and assumptions to establish the liabilities for unpaid loss and LAE recorded at the balance sheet date. These techniques include detailed statistical analyses of past claims reporting, settlement activity, claims frequency, internal loss experience, changes in pricing or coverages and severity data when sufficient information exists to lend statistical credibility to the analyses. More subjective techniques are used when statistical data is insufficient or unavailable. These liabilities also reflect implicit or explicit assumptions regarding the potential effects of future inflation, court resolutions and judicial interpretations, reinsurance coverage, legislative changes and recent trends in such factors, as well as a number of actuarial assumptions that vary across our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries and across lines of business. This data is analyzed by line of business, coverage, accident year or underwriting year and reinsurance contract type, as appropriate.
Our loss reserve review processes use actuarial methods that vary by operating subsidiary and line of business and produce point estimates for each class of business. The actuarial methods used include the following methods:
•
Reported Loss Development Method: a reported loss development pattern is calculated based on historical loss development data, and this pattern is then used to project the latest evaluation of cumulative reported losses for each accident year or underwriting year, as appropriate, to ultimate levels;
•
Paid Development Method: a paid loss development pattern is calculated based on historical paid loss development data, and this pattern is then used to project the latest evaluation of cumulative paid losses for each accident year or underwriting year, as appropriate, to ultimate levels;
•
Expected Loss Ratio Method: expected loss ratios are applied to premiums earned, based on historical company experience, or historical insurance industry results when company experience is deemed not to be sufficient; and
•
Bornhuetter-Ferguson Method: the results from the Expected Loss Ratio Method are essentially blended with either the Reported Loss Development Method or the Paid Development Method.
The primary actuarial assumptions used by our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries include the following:
•
Expected loss ratios represent management’s expectation of losses, in relation to earned premium, at the time business is written, before any actual claims experience has emerged. This expectation is a significant determinant of the estimate of loss reserves for recently written business where there is little paid or incurred loss data to consider. Expected loss ratios are generally derived from historical loss ratios adjusted for the impact of rate changes, loss cost trends and known changes in the type of risks underwritten. For certain longer-tailed reinsurance lines of business that are typically lower frequency, high severity classes, expected loss ratios are often used for the last several accident years or underwriting years, as appropriate.
•
Rate of loss cost inflation (or deflation) represents management’s expectation of the inflation associated with the costs we may incur in the future to settle claims. Expected loss cost inflation is particularly important for longer-tailed classes.
•
Reported and paid loss emergence patterns represent management’s expectation of how losses will be reported and ultimately paid in the future based on the historical emergence patterns of reported and paid losses and are derived from past experience of our subsidiaries, modified for current trends. These emergence patterns are used to project current reported or paid loss amounts to their ultimate settlement value.
In the absence of sufficiently credible internally-derived historical information, each of the above actuarial assumptions may also incorporate data from the insurance or reinsurance industries as a whole, or peer companies writing substantially similar coverages. Data from external sources may be used to set expectations, as well as assumptions regarding loss frequency or severity relative to an exposure unit or claim, among other actuarial parameters. Assumptions regarding the application or composition of peer group or industry reserving parameters require substantial judgment.
Loss Frequency and Severity. Loss frequency and severity are measures of loss activity that are considered in determining the key assumptions described above. Loss frequency is a measure of the number of claims per unit of insured exposure, and loss severity is a measure of the average size of claims. Factors affecting loss frequency include the effectiveness of loss controls and safety programs, changes in economic conditions or weather patterns. Factors affecting loss severity include changes in policy limits, retentions, rate of inflation and judicial interpretations. Another factor affecting estimates of loss frequency and severity is the loss reporting lag, which is the period of time between the occurrence of a loss and the date the loss is reported to our reinsurance or insurance operating subsidiaries. The length of the loss reporting lag affects their ability to accurately predict loss frequency, which are more predictable for lines with short reporting lags, as well as the amount of reserves needed for IBNR. If the actual level of loss frequency and severity is higher or lower than expected, the ultimate losses will be different than management’s estimates. A small percentage change in an estimate can result in a material effect on our reported earnings. The following table presents the impact of changes, which could be favorable or unfavorable, in frequency and severity on our loss estimates for claims occurring in 2020:
Our net reserves for loss and LAE of $11.3 billion as of December 31, 2020 relate to multiple accident years. Therefore, the impact of changes in frequency or severity for more than one accident year could be higher or lower than the amounts reflected above. We believe the above analysis provides a reasonable benchmark for sensitivity, as we believe it is within historical variation for our reserves. Currently, none of the scenarios is believed to be more likely than the others. See Note 1(k) and Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our loss and LAE.
Prior Year Development. Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries continually evaluate the potential for changes, both favorable and unfavorable, in their estimates of loss and LAE liabilities and use the results of these evaluations to adjust both recorded liabilities and underwriting criteria. With respect to liabilities for unpaid loss and LAE established in prior years, these liabilities are periodically analyzed and their expected ultimate cost adjusted, where necessary, to reflect favorable or unfavorable development in loss experience and new information, including, for certain catastrophic events, revised industry estimates of the magnitude of a catastrophe. Adjustments to previously recorded liabilities for unpaid loss and LAE, both favorable and unfavorable, are reflected in our financial results in the periods in which these adjustments are made and are referred to as prior accident year loss reserve development. We adjusted our prior year loss and LAE reserve estimates during 2020, 2019 and 2018 based on current information that differed from previous assumptions made at the time such loss and LAE reserves were previously estimated. See Note 6(b) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for a table presenting the favorable and unfavorable prior accident year loss reserve development for 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Asbestos-Related Illness and Environmental Impairment Reserves. Loss and LAE include amounts for risks related to asbestos-related illness and environmental impairment. The reserves carried for such claims, including the IBNR portion, are based upon known facts and current law at the respective balance sheet dates. However, significant uncertainty exists in determining the amount of ultimate liability for asbestos-related illness and environmental impairment losses. This uncertainty is due to, among other reasons, inconsistent and changing court resolutions and judicial interpretations with respect to underlying policy intent and coverage and uncertainties as to the allocation of responsibility for resultant damages, among other reasons. Further, possible future changes in statutes, laws, regulations, theories of liability and other factors could have a material effect on these liabilities and, accordingly, future earnings. Although we are unable at this time to determine whether additional reserves, which could have a material adverse effect upon our results of operations, may be necessary in the future, we believe that our asbestos-related illness and environmental impairment reserves are adequate as of December 31, 2020. See Note 12(c) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” and pages 60 and 61 of this Form 10-K for additional information on loss and LAE reserves related to asbestos-related illness and environmental impairment.
Reinsurance. Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries reinsure portions of the risks they underwrite in order to reduce the effect of individual or aggregate exposure to losses, manage capacity, protect capital resources, reduce volatility in specific lines of business, improve risk-adjusted portfolio returns and enable them to increase gross premium writings and risk capacity without requiring additional capital. Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries generally purchase reinsurance and retrocessional coverages from highly-rated, third-party reinsurers. If the assuming reinsurers are unable or unwilling to meet the obligations assumed under the applicable reinsurance agreements, our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries would remain liable for such reinsurance portion not paid by these reinsurers. Recoverables recorded with respect to claims ceded to reinsurers under reinsurance contracts are predicated in large part on the estimates for unpaid losses and, therefore, are also subject to a significant degree of uncertainty. In addition to the factors cited above, reinsurance recoverables may prove uncollectible if a reinsurer is unable or unwilling to perform under a contract. Reinsurance purchased by our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries does not relieve them of their obligations to their own policyholders or cedants. Additional information regarding the use of, and risks related to the use of reinsurance by our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries can be found on pages 49, 50, 65 and 66 of this Form 10-K. Also see Note 1(f) and Note 5 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our reinsurance recoverables.
Fair Value Measurement of Certain Financial Assets
Fair value is defined as the price that would be received upon the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing, able and knowledgeable market participants at the measurement date. Fair value measurements are not adjusted for transaction costs. In addition, a three-tiered hierarchy for inputs is used in management’s determination of fair value of financial instruments that emphasizes the use of observable inputs over the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity. Unobservable inputs are the reporting entity’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions based on the best information available under the circumstances. In assessing the appropriateness of using observable inputs in making our fair value determinations, we consider whether the market for a particular security is “active” or “inactive” based on all the relevant facts and circumstances. A market may be considered to be inactive if there are relatively few recent transactions or if there is a significant decrease in market volume. Furthermore, we consider whether observable transactions are “orderly” or not. We do not consider a transaction to be orderly if there is evidence of a forced liquidation or other distressed condition; as such, little or no weight is given to that transaction as an indicator of fair value.
The three-tiered hierarchy used in management’s determination of fair value is broken down into three levels based on the reliability and observability of inputs. Assets classified as Level 3 principally include certain other asset-backed securities (primarily, collateralized loan obligations) and, to a lesser extent, U.S. and foreign corporate bonds (including privately issued securities), commercial mortgage-backed securities, or “CMBS,” and commercial mortgage loans. The valuation of Level 3 assets requires the greatest degree of judgment. These measurements may be made under circumstances in which there is little, if any, market activity for the asset. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment. In making the assessment, we consider factors specific to the asset.
Mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities are initially valued at the transaction price. Subsequently, we use widely accepted valuation practices that produce a fair value measurement. The vast majority of fair values are determined using an income approach. The income approach primarily involves developing a discounted cash flow model using the future projected cash flows of the underlying collateral, as well as other inputs described below. A few Level 3 valuations are based entirely on non-binding broker quotes. These securities consist primarily of mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities where reliable pool and loan level collateral information cannot be reasonably obtained, and as such, an income approach is not feasible.
Since Level 3 valuations are based on techniques that use significant inputs that are unobservable with little or no market activity, the fair values under the market approach for Level 3 securities are less credible than under the income approach;
however, the market approach, where feasible, is used to corroborate the fair values determined by the income approach. The market approach primarily relies on the securities’ relationships to quoted transaction prices for similarly structured instruments. To the extent that transaction prices for similarly structured instruments are not available for a particular security, other market approaches are used to corroborate the fair values determined by the income approach, including option adjusted spread analyses.
Unobservable inputs, significant to the measurement and valuation of mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, are generally used in the income approach, and include assumptions about prepayment speed and collateral performance, including default, delinquency and loss severity rates. Significant changes to any one of these inputs, or combination of inputs, could significantly change the fair value measurement for these securities.
The impact of prepayment speeds on fair value is dependent on a number of variables including whether the securities were purchased at a premium or discount. A decrease in interest rates generally increases the assumed rate of prepayments, and an increase in interest rates generally decreases the assumed speed of prepayments. Increased prepayments increase the yield on securities purchased at a discount and reduce the yield on securities purchased at a premium. In a decreasing prepayment environment, yields on securities purchased at a discount are reduced but are increased for securities purchased at a premium. Changes in default assumptions on underlying collateral are generally accompanied by directionally similar changes in other collateral performance factors, but generally result in a directionally opposite change in prepayment assumptions.
See Notes 1(b), 1(c), 3 and 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our investments and fair value.
Change in Allowance for Credit Losses on Available for Sale Securities
The determination of the allowance for credit losses on AFS securities requires the judgment of management and consideration of the fundamental condition of the issuer, its near-term business prospects and all the relevant facts and circumstances.
We hold our debt securities as AFS and as such, these securities are recorded at fair value. Credit losses for AFS securities are recorded through an allowance for credit losses. Changes in the allowance for credit losses are recorded for (or as a reversal of) credit losses on AFS securities. A portion of such decline in fair value related to a debt security that is believed to arise from factors other than credit is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income rather than charged against earnings.
We continually monitor the difference between amortized cost and the estimated fair value of our debt investments. The analysis of a security’s decline in value is performed in its functional currency. Debt securities in an unrealized loss position are evaluated for credit losses if they meet any of the following criteria: (i) they are trading at a discount of at least 20 percent to amortized cost and have a credit rating below investment grade or are not rated; (ii) there has been a negative credit or news event with respect to the issuer that could indicate the existence of a credit loss; or (iii) we intend to sell, or it is more likely than not that we will sell, the debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis.
If we intend to sell, or it is more likely than not that we will sell, a debt security before recovery of its amortized cost basis, the total amount of the unrealized loss position is recognized as a credit loss in earnings. To the extent that a debt security that is in an unrealized loss position is not impaired based on the preceding, we will consider a debt security to be impaired when we believe it to be probable that we will not be able to collect the entire amortized cost basis. For debt securities in an unrealized loss position as of the end of each quarter, we develop a best estimate of the present value of expected cash flows. If the results of the cash flow analysis indicate that we will not recover the full amount of its amortized cost basis in the debt security, we record a credit loss in earnings equal to the difference between the present value of expected cash flows and the amortized cost basis of the debt security. If applicable, the difference between the total unrealized loss position on the debt security and the total loss recognized in earnings is the non-credit related portion, which is recorded as a component of other comprehensive income.
In developing the cash flow analyses for debt securities, we consider various factors for the different categories of debt securities. For municipal bonds, we take into account the taxing power of the issuer, source of revenue, credit risk and enhancements and pre-refunding. For mortgage and asset-backed securities, we discount our best estimate of future cash flows at an effective rate equal to the original effective yield of the security or, in the case of floating rate securities, at the current coupon. Our models include assumptions about prepayment speeds, default and delinquency rates, underlying collateral (if any), credit ratings, credit enhancements and other observable market data. For corporate bonds, we review business prospects, credit ratings and available information from asset managers and rating agencies for individual securities.
See Note 1(b) and Note 4(f) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our investments and investment impairments.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of amortization, are recorded as a consequence of business acquisitions. Goodwill represents the excess, if any, of the amount paid to acquire subsidiaries and other businesses over the fair value of their
net assets as of the date of acquisition. Other intangible assets are recorded at their fair value as of the acquisition date. A significant amount of judgment is needed to determine the fair value as of the date of acquisition of other intangible assets and the net assets acquired in a business acquisition. The determination of the fair value of other intangible assets and net assets often involves the use of valuation models and other estimates, which involve many assumptions and variables and are inherently subjective. The fair value estimates may include the use of financial projections and discount rates. Other intangible assets that are not deemed to have an indefinite useful life are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortization.
Goodwill and other intangible assets deemed to have an indefinite useful life are tested annually in the fourth quarter of every year for impairment. Goodwill and other intangible assets are also tested whenever events and changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. A significant amount of judgment is required in performing goodwill and other intangible asset impairment tests. These tests may include estimating the fair value of our subsidiaries, which include Alleghany Capital’s operating subsidiaries, and other intangible assets. The fair value estimates may include the use of financial projections and discount rates. If it is determined that an asset has been impaired, the asset is written down by the amount of the impairment, with a corresponding charge to net earnings. Subsequent reversal of any impairment charge is not permitted.
With respect to goodwill, a qualitative assessment is first made to determine whether it is necessary to perform quantitative testing. This initial assessment includes, among other factors, consideration of: (i) past, current and projected future earnings and equity; (ii) recent trends and market conditions; and (iii) valuation metrics involving similar companies that are publicly-traded and acquisitions of similar companies, if available. If this initial qualitative assessment indicates that the fair value of an operating subsidiary of ours may be less than its carrying amount, a second step is taken, involving a comparison between the estimated fair values of our operating subsidiary with its respective carrying amount including goodwill. Under GAAP, fair value refers to the amount for which the entire operating subsidiary may be bought or sold. The methods for estimating the fair value of an operating subsidiary values include asset and liability fair values and other valuation techniques, such as discounted cash flows and multiples of earnings or revenues. All of these methods involve significant estimates and assumptions. If the carrying value exceeds estimated fair value an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the operating subsidiary exceeds its estimated fair value. Any resulting impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill associated with the operating subsidiary.
Our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020 includes goodwill of $614.2 million related primarily to Jazwares, Wilbert, Concord, Kentucky Trailer, PCT, W&W|AFCO Steel and IPS, and intangible assets, net of amortization, of $787.5 million related primarily to Jazwares, W&W|AFCO Steel, Wilbert, TransRe, Concord, IPS, PCT and Kentucky Trailer. See Note 1(i) and Note 2 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our goodwill and other intangible assets.
Reinsurance Premium Revenues
We must make certain judgments in the determination of assumed reinsurance premiums written and earned. For pro rata contracts, premiums written and earned are generally based on reports received from ceding companies. For excess-of-loss contracts, premiums are generally recorded as written based on contract terms and are earned ratably over the periods the related coverages are provided. Unearned premiums and ceded unearned premiums represent the portion of gross premiums written and ceded premiums written, respectively, related to the unexpired periods of such coverages. The relationship between net premiums written and net premiums earned will, therefore, generally vary depending on the volume and inception dates of the business assumed and ceded and the mix of such business between pro rata and excess-of-loss reinsurance.
Premiums written and earned, along with related costs, for which data have not been reported by the ceding companies, are estimated based on historical patterns and other relevant factors. Such estimates of premiums earned are considered when establishing the IBNR portion of loss reserves. The differences between these estimates and actual data subsequently reported, which may be material as a result of the diversity of cedants and reporting practices and the inherent difficulty in estimating premium inflows, among other factors, are recorded in the period when actual data become available and such differences may materially affect our results of operations.
Other Accounting Estimates
In addition to the policies described above which contain critical accounting estimates, our other accounting policies are described in Note 1 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. The accounting policies described in Note 1 require us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities that do not meet the level of materiality required for a determination that the accounting policy includes critical accounting estimates. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to the value of deferred acquisition costs, incentive compensation, income taxes, pension benefits and contingencies and litigation. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.
Financial Condition
Alleghany Parent Company-Level
General. In general, we follow a policy of maintaining a relatively liquid financial position at our unrestricted holding companies. This policy has permitted us to expand our operations through internal growth at our subsidiaries and through acquisitions of, or substantial investments in, operating companies. As of December 31, 2020, we held total marketable securities and cash of $1,123.7 million, compared with $1,283.3 million as of December 31, 2019. The decrease in marketable securities and cash in 2020 primarily reflects redemption of certain senior notes, a special dividend paid in the first quarter of 2020 and the repurchase of shares of our common stock, as discussed below, as well as contributions to Alleghany Capital to fund the acquisitions of Wilbert and acquisitions made by Jazwares and PCT, partially offset by the issuance of the 2030 Senior Notes, as discussed below, and the receipt of dividends from TransRe and RSUI. The $1,123.7 million is composed of $713.6 million at the Alleghany parent company, $332.0 million at AIHL and $78.1 million at the TransRe holding company. We also hold certain non-marketable investments at our unrestricted holding companies. We believe that we have and will have adequate internally generated funds, cash resources and unused credit facilities to provide for the currently foreseeable needs of our business, and we had no material commitments for capital expenditures as of December 31, 2020.
Stockholders’ equity attributable to Alleghany stockholders was approximately $8.8 billion as of December 31, 2020, and as of December 31, 2019, whereby increases from net earnings attributable to Alleghany stockholders, as discussed above, as well appreciation in the value of our debt securities portfolio were offset by a special dividend and repurchases of our common stock, all as discussed below. As of December 31, 2020, we had 14,041,180 shares of our common stock outstanding, compared with 14,364,628 shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2019.
Debt. On May 18, 2020, we completed a public offering of $500.0 million aggregate principal of our 3.625% senior notes due on May 15, 2030, or the “2030 Senior Notes.” The 2030 Senior Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated general obligations of Alleghany. Interest on the 2030 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and November 15 of each year. The terms of the 2030 Senior Notes permit redemption prior to maturity. The indenture under which the 2030 Senior Notes were issued contains covenants that impose conditions on our ability to create liens on the capital stock of AIHL, TransRe, or RSUI. The 2030 Senior Notes were issued at approximately 99.9 percent of par, resulting in proceeds after underwriting discount, commissions and other expenses of $494.8 million, and an effective yield of approximately 3.64 percent. Approximately $4.6 million of underwriting discount, commissions and other expenses were recorded as deferred charges, which are amortized over the life of the 2030 Senior Notes.
On September 9, 2014, we completed a public offering of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.90% senior notes due on September 15, 2044, or the “2044 Senior Notes.” The 2044 Senior Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated general obligations of Alleghany. Interest on the 2044 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on March 15 and September 15 of each year. The terms of the 2044 Senior Notes permit redemption prior to their maturity. The indenture under which the 2044 Senior Notes were issued contains covenants that impose conditions on our ability to create liens on, or engage in sales of, the capital stock of AIHL, TransRe or RSUI. The 2044 Senior Notes were issued at approximately 99.3 percent of par, resulting in proceeds after underwriting discount, commissions and other expenses of $294.3 million and an effective yield of approximately 5.0 percent.
On June 26, 2012, we completed a public offering of $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.95% senior notes due on June 27, 2022, or the “2022 Senior Notes.” The 2022 Senior Notes are unsecured and unsubordinated general obligations of Alleghany. Interest on the 2022 Senior Notes is payable semi-annually on June 27 and December 27 of each year. The terms of the 2022 Senior Notes permit redemption prior to their maturity. The indenture under which the 2022 Senior Notes were issued contains covenants that impose conditions on our ability to create liens on, or engage in sales of, the capital stock of AIHL, TransRe or RSUI. The 2022 Senior Notes were issued at approximately 99.9 percent of par, resulting in proceeds after underwriting discount, commissions and other expenses of $396.0 million and an effective yield of approximately 5.05 percent.
On September 20, 2010, we completed a public offering of $300.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 5.625% senior notes due on September 15, 2020, or the “2020 Senior Notes.” The terms of the 2020 Senior Notes permitted redemption prior to their maturity. The 2020 Senior Notes were issued at approximately 99.6 percent of par, resulting in proceeds after underwriting discount, commissions and other expenses of $298.9 million and an effective yield of approximately 5.67 percent.
On January 15, 2020, we redeemed the 2020 Senior Notes for $312.7 million, consisting of the $300.0 million aggregate principal amount redeemed, $7.1 million of redemption premium and $5.6 million of accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount being redeemed to the date of redemption. As a result of this early redemption of the 2020 Senior Notes, we recorded a realized loss, before tax, of $7.1 million in 2020.
Credit Agreement. On July 31, 2017, we entered into a five-year credit agreement, or the “Credit Agreement,” with certain lenders party thereto, which provides for an unsecured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $300.0 million. The credit facility is scheduled to expire on July 31, 2022, unless earlier terminated. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be available for working capital and general corporate purposes, including permitted acquisitions and repurchases
of common stock. Borrowings under the Credit Agreement bear a floating rate of interest based in part on our credit rating, among other factors. The Credit Agreement contains representations, warranties and covenants customary for bank loan facilities of this nature. There were no borrowings under the Credit Agreement from inception through December 31, 2020.
The Credit Agreement contains representations, warranties and covenants customary for bank loan facilities of this nature and substantially similar to the Prior Credit Agreement. In this regard, the Credit Agreement requires Alleghany to, among other things, (x) maintain consolidated net worth of not less than the sum of (i) $5.3 billion plus (ii) 50% of the cumulative consolidated net income earned in each fiscal quarter thereafter (if positive) commencing with the fiscal quarter ending June 30, 2017 and (y) maintain a ratio of consolidated total indebtedness to consolidated capital as of the end of each fiscal quarter of not greater than 0.35 to 1.0. Additionally, the Credit Agreement contains various negative covenants with which Alleghany must comply, including, but not limited to, limitations respecting: the creation of liens on any property or asset; the incurrence of indebtedness; mergers, consolidations, liquidations and dissolutions; change of business; sales of assets; transactions with affiliates; and other provisions customary in similar types of agreements.
If an event of default occurs, then, to the extent permitted in the Credit Agreement, the lenders may direct the administrative agent to, or the administrative agent may, with the consent of lenders holding more than 50% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the loans, as applicable, terminate the commitments, accelerate the repayment of any outstanding loans and exercise all rights and remedies available to such lenders under the Credit Agreement and applicable law. In the case of an event of default that exists due to the occurrence of certain involuntary or voluntary bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization events of Alleghany, the commitments will automatically terminate and the repayment of any outstanding loans shall be automatically accelerated.
Dividends from Subsidiaries. See Note 10(c) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for information on dividend restrictions and dividends received from our subsidiaries.
Common Stock Repurchases. In November 2015, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of shares of our common stock at such times and at prices as management determines to be advisable, up to an aggregate of $400.0 million. In June 2018, our Board of Directors authorized, upon the completion of the program authorized in 2015, the repurchase of additional shares of our common stock at such times and at prices as management determines to be advisable, up to an aggregate of $400.0 million. In September 2019, our Board of Directors authorized, upon the completion of the program authorized in 2018, the repurchase of additional shares of our common stock at such times and at prices as management determines to be advisable, up to an aggregate of $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2020, we had $432.4 million remaining in the aggregate under our share repurchase authorizations.
The following table presents the shares of our common stock that we repurchased in 2020, 2019 and 2018:
Dividends. From 1999 through 2011, we declared stock dividends in lieu of cash dividends every year. Our Board of Directors determined not to declare a dividend, cash or stock, for 2012 through 2017 and 2019. In February 2018, our Board of Directors declared a special dividend of $10.00 per share for stockholders of record on March 5, 2018. On March 15, 2018, we paid dividends to stockholders totaling $154.0 million. In February 2020, the Alleghany Board of Directors declared a special dividend of $15.00 per share for stockholders of record on March 5, 2020. On March 16, 2020, we paid dividends to stockholders totaling $215.0 million.
Capital Contributions. From time to time, we make capital contributions to our subsidiaries. In 2020, we made aggregate capital contributions of $126.1 million to Alleghany Capital to: (i) fund a portion of PCT’s acquisition of a manufacturer of high-performance carbide end mills in March 2020 for $20.1 million; (ii) fund a portion of Jazwares’s acquisition of Kelly Toy that closed on April 1, 2020 for $59.7 million; and (iii) fund a portion of its purchase of an additional approximately 55 percent of Wilbert it previously did not own that closed on April 1, 2020 for $46.3 million. In addition, in 2020, we contributed $3.1 million to SORC for purposes of its operations prior to its December 31, 2020 sale.
In 2019, we made aggregate capital contributions of $50.2 million to Alleghany Capital to: (i) fund a portion of PCT’s acquisition of a consumable cutting tool manufacturer in June 2019 for $29.4 million; (ii) fund a portion of Kentucky Trailer’s acquisition of a manufacturer of aluminum feed transportation equipment in July 2019 for $12.2 million; and (iii) purchase all PCT noncontrolling interests effective April 1, 2019 for $8.6 million. In addition, in 2019, we contributed $8.3 million to SORC for purposes of ongoing operations.
In 2018, we made aggregate capital contributions of $144.1 million to Alleghany Capital to: (i) acquire approximately 85 percent of the equity in Concord for $68.6 million (excluding amounts for transaction-related expenses and estimates of future amounts payable); and (ii) fund Alleghany Capital’s portion of the acquisition of Hirschfeld by its subsidiary W&W|AFCO Steel for $75.5 million (excluding amounts for transaction-related expenses). In addition, in 2018 we contributed $14.1 million to SORC for purposes of ongoing operations.
Contractual Obligations. We have certain obligations to make future payments under contracts and credit-related financial instruments and commitments. The following table presents certain long-term aggregate contractual obligations and credit-related financial commitments as of December 31, 2020:
(1)
“Senior Notes” refers to: (i) the Alleghany Senior Notes, consisting of the 2022 Senior Notes, the 2030 Senior Notes and the 2044 Senior Notes; and (ii) TransRe’s 8.00% senior notes due on November 30, 2039. See Note 8 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on the Senior Notes and other debt.
(2)
Primarily reflects capital commitments to investment partnerships.
(3)
Primarily reflects obligations related to employee long-term compensation plans and retirement benefit plans. See Notes 14 and 15 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on long-term compensation and retirement benefit plans, respectively.
Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries have obligations to make certain payments for loss and LAE pursuant to insurance policies and reinsurance contracts they issue. These future payments are reflected as reserves on our consolidated financial statements. With respect to loss and LAE, there is typically no minimum contractual commitment associated with insurance policies and reinsurance contracts, and the timing and ultimate amount of actual claims related to these reserves is uncertain.
Investments in Certain Variable Interest Entities. In December 2012, TransRe obtained an ownership interest in Pillar Capital Holdings Limited, or “Pillar Holdings,” a Bermuda-based insurance asset manager focused on collateralized reinsurance and catastrophe insurance-linked securities. Additionally, TransRe and, to a lesser extent, AIHL invested in limited partnership funds managed by Pillar Holdings, or the “Funds.” We have concluded that both Pillar Holdings and the Funds, or collectively, the “Pillar Investments,” represent variable interest entities and that we are not the primary beneficiary, as we do not have the ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact each entity’s economic performance. Therefore, the Pillar Investments are not consolidated and are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. See Note 4(i) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on the Pillar Investments as of December 31, 2020.
See Note 12(e) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for further information regarding variable interest entities.
Investments in Commercial Mortgage Loans. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the carrying value of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio was $670.2 million and $686.2 million, respectively, representing the unpaid principal balance on the loans, less allowance for credit losses. See Note 4(j) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail on the ratings of our commercial mortgage portfolio as of December 31, 2020.
Subsidiaries
Financial strength is also a high priority of our subsidiaries, whose assets stand behind their financial commitments to their customers and vendors. We believe that our subsidiaries have and will have adequate internally generated funds, cash
resources and unused credit facilities to provide for the currently foreseeable needs of their businesses. Our subsidiaries had no material commitments for capital expenditures as of December 31, 2020.
The obligations and cash outflow of our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries include claim settlements, commission expenses, administrative expenses, purchases of investments and interest and principal payments on TransRe’s 8.00% senior notes due on November 30, 2039. In addition to premium collections, cash inflow is obtained from interest and dividend income, maturities and sales of investments and reinsurance recoveries. Because cash inflow from premiums is received in advance of cash outflow required to settle claims, our reinsurance and insurance operating units accumulate funds which they invest pending the need for liquidity. As the cash needs of a reinsurance or an insurance company can be unpredictable due to the uncertainty of the claims settlement process, the portfolios of our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries consist primarily of debt securities and short-term investments to ensure the availability of funds and maintain a sufficient amount of liquid securities.
Included in Alleghany Capital is debt associated with its operating subsidiaries, which totaled $556.9 million as of December 31, 2020, which is generally used to support working capital needs and to help finance acquisitions. The $556.9 million included:
•
$253.1 million of borrowings by Jazwares under its available credit facilities to support its seasonal peak working capital requirements and borrowings incurred and assumed from its acquisition of WCT in October 2019 and its acquisition of Kelly Toy in April 2020;
•
$98.3 million of borrowings by W&W|AFCO Steel under its available credit facilities and term loans (including borrowings incurred and assumed from its acquisition of Hirschfeld in February 2018);
•
$72.8 million of borrowings by Wilbert under its available credit facility and term loans;
•
$64.1 million of term loans at Kentucky Trailer primarily related to borrowings to finance small acquisitions, including its acquisitions of controlling interests in certain manufacturers of aluminum feed transportation equipment in December 2018 and July 2019, and borrowings under its available credit facilities;
•
$36.5 million of borrowings by IPS under its available credit facility and term loans, in part to finance a small acquisition in May 2019; and
•
$32.1 million of term loans at PCT primarily related to borrowings to finance the acquisition of a waterjet orifice and nozzle manufacturer in 2016 and the acquisition of a consumable cutting tool manufacturer in June 2019.
None of these liabilities are guaranteed by Alleghany or Alleghany Capital. In December 2019, third-party, floating-rate term loans at Concord were repaid and replaced with approximately $33.2 million of intercompany floating-rate debt funded by the Alleghany parent company. The intercompany debt and related interest expenses are eliminated at the Alleghany consolidated level.
Hotel Development Commitments. In 2020, Alleghany Capital invested $0.8 million in certain hotel development projects. The projects are conducted through certain limited liability entities, which are variable interest entities, to which we are not the primary beneficiary. As of December 31, 2020, we guaranteed up to $5.3 million of debt of these entities to certain third party lenders for which we receive a fee.
Consolidated Investment Holdings
Investment Strategy and Holdings. Our investment strategy seeks to avoid permanent loss of capital and maintain appropriate levels of liquidity while maximizing long-term, risk-adjusted, after-tax returns. Our investment decisions are guided mainly by the nature and timing of expected liability payouts, management’s forecast of cash flows and the possibility of unexpected cash demands, such as to satisfy claims due to catastrophe losses. Our consolidated investment portfolio consists mainly of highly rated and liquid debt and equity securities listed on national securities exchanges. The overall credit quality of the debt securities portfolio is measured using the lowest rating of three large, reputable rating agencies. In this regard, the overall weighted-average credit quality rating of our debt securities portfolio as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 was AA-. Although a portion of our debt securities, which consist predominantly of municipal bonds, are insured by third-party financial guaranty insurance companies, the impact of such insurance was not significant to the debt securities credit quality rating as of December 31, 2020. See Note 4(f) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail on the ratings of our debt securities portfolio as of December 31, 2020.
Our debt securities portfolio has been designed to enable management to react to investment opportunities created by changing interest rates, prepayments, tax and credit considerations or other factors, or to circumstances that could result in a mismatch between the desired duration of debt securities and the duration of liabilities, and, as such, is classified as AFS.
Effective duration measures a portfolio’s fair value sensitivity to changes in interest rates. Shorter lengths of time to maturity are generally associated with shorter duration and less sensitivity to changes in market yields. As such, duration
generally falls as time passes, all else being equal. Furthermore, a portfolio’s duration can also be impacted by adjustments made to the composition of the portfolio as well as changes in the level of market yields. As yields rise (fall), duration generally decreases (increases). As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, our debt securities portfolio had an effective duration of approximately 4.3 years and 4.2 years, respectively. The increase in duration during the 2020 primarily reflects the significant decline in risk-free interest rates, which was partially offset by the passage of time. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $4.2 billion, or 27 percent, of our debt securities portfolio represented securities with maturities of five years or less. See Note 4(b) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional detail on the contractual maturities of our consolidated debt securities portfolio. We may increase the proportion of our debt securities portfolio held in securities with maturities of more than five years should the yields of these securities provide, in our judgment, sufficient compensation for their increased risk. We do not believe that this strategy would reduce our ability to meet ongoing claim payments or to respond to significant catastrophe losses.
In the event paid losses accelerate beyond the ability of our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries to fund these paid losses from current cash balances, current operating cash flow, dividend and interest receipts and security maturities, we would need to liquidate a portion of our investment portfolio, make capital contributions to our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries, and/or arrange for financing. Strains on liquidity could result from: (i) the occurrence of several significant catastrophe events in a relatively short period of time; (ii) the sale of investments into a depressed marketplace to fund these paid losses; (iii) the uncollectibility of reinsurance recoverables on these paid losses; (iv) the significant decrease in the value of collateral supporting reinsurance recoverables; or (v) a significant reduction in our net premium collections.
We may, from time to time, make significant investments in the common stock of a public company, subject to limitations imposed by applicable regulations.
On a consolidated basis, as of December 31, 2020 our invested assets increased to approximately $20.2 billion from approximately $18.9 billion as of December 31, 2019, primarily reflecting appreciation in the value of our debt securities portfolio and net proceeds from the issuance of our 2030 Senior Notes, partially offset by the early redemption of our 2020 Senior Notes, the special dividend payment, repurchases of shares of our common stock and depreciation in the value of our equity securities portfolio, all as discussed above. The appreciation in the value of our debt securities portfolio reflects a decrease in risk-free interest rates in 2020.
Fair Value. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received upon the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between willing, able and knowledgeable market participants at the measurement date. Fair value measurements are not adjusted for transaction costs. In addition, a three-tiered hierarchy for inputs is used in management’s determination of fair value of financial instruments that emphasizes the use of observable inputs over the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are market participant assumptions based on market data obtained from sources independent of the reporting entity. Unobservable inputs are the reporting entity’s own assumptions about market participant assumptions based on the best information available under the circumstances. In assessing the appropriateness of using observable inputs in making our fair value determinations, we consider whether the market for a particular security is “active” or “inactive” based on all the relevant facts and circumstances. A market may be considered to be inactive if there are relatively few recent transactions or if there is a significant decrease in market volume. Furthermore, we consider whether observable transactions are “orderly” or not. We do not consider a transaction to be orderly if there is evidence of a forced liquidation or other distressed condition; as such, little or no weight is given to that transaction as an indicator of fair value. See Note 1 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our accounting policy on fair value.
The following table presents the carrying values and estimated fair values of our consolidated financial instruments as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(1)
This table includes debt and equity securities, as well as partnership and non-marketable equity investments accounted for at fair value that are included in other invested assets. This table excludes investments accounted for using the equity method and commercial mortgage loans that are accounted for at unpaid principal balance. The fair value of short-term investments approximates amortized cost.
(2)
See Note 8 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on the senior notes and other debt.
See Note 3 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K for additional information on our financial instruments measured at fair value and the level of the fair value hierarchy of inputs used as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Municipal Bonds. The following table provides the fair value of our municipal bonds as of December 31, 2020, categorized by state and revenue source. Special revenue bonds are debt securities for which the payment of principal and interest is available solely from the cash flows of the related projects. As issuers of revenue bonds do not have the ability to draw from tax revenues or levy taxes to fund obligations, revenue bonds may carry a greater risk of default than general obligation bonds.
Catastrophe Exposure
Natural or man-made catastrophe events may expose our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries to underwriting losses across multiple lines of business and, in any given year, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Further, the potential for accumulated losses from multiple events, and uncertainty as to the frequency and severity of such events, present unique challenges for managing risk. Our reinsurance and insurance subsidiaries take certain measures to mitigate the impact of catastrophe events including considering catastrophe risks in their underwriting and pricing decisions, purchasing reinsurance, monitoring and modeling accumulated exposures, and managing exposure in key geographic zones and product lines that are prone to catastrophe events.
We set and monitor subsidiary and group-level limits to single zone exposures as well as to aggregate exposures from multiple events within any one year and at multiple points along the loss distribution curve. For example, we seek to limit the after-tax impact of all natural catastrophes occurring in any given year, net of related estimated pre-overhead underwriting profit, to 15 percent of Alleghany’s stockholders’ equity at the 250-year return period (having a likelihood of being exceeded in any single year of 0.4 percent). Our loss estimates for zonal and aggregate catastrophe exposures are updated and reviewed against
tolerances as part of our risk oversight processes on a quarterly basis. Risk tolerances are subject to change based on our view of the risk-return characteristics of business being underwritten.
We assess the probability of occurrence and severity of catastrophe events through the use of industry recognized models and other techniques. Where appropriate, we supplement these models with our own assessment of exposures which, in our view, may not be appropriately captured by these models. There is no single standard methodology or set of industry standard assumptions to project possible losses related to catastrophe exposures and the form and quality of the data obtained, including data obtained from insureds and ceding companies, and used in these models are not uniformly compatible with the data requirements of all models. Therefore, the use of different methodologies and assumptions could materially change the projected losses. Finally, these modeled losses may not be comparable with estimates made by other companies.
Although the analytical tools used to estimate catastrophe exposure are useful in both pricing and monitoring catastrophe risk, the estimates derived by use of these techniques are inherently uncertain and do not reflect our maximum exposures to these events and it is highly likely that our losses will vary, perhaps materially, from these estimates.
Potential catastrophe losses are typically expressed in terms of the probable maximum loss, or “PML.” PMLs may be expressed as Occurrence Exceedance Probability, or “OEP,” which reflect losses that may occur in any single event due to the defined peril in the indicated region, or as Aggregate Exceedance Probability, or “AEP,” which reflect losses from multiple events that may occur in any given year. The following is an overview of such modeled OEP PMLs from property, engineering, marine and energy exposures and the associated natural perils that we deem most significant based upon contracts in force at January 1, 2021 for TransRe and December 1, 2020 for RSUI. In addition to the single zone PMLs, we have added a “U.S. wind” PML to our disclosures which reflects our occurrence PML for the entire U.S. Modeled results also reflect losses arising from certain of our invested assets that have specific catastrophe exposures. The estimated amounts of these modeled losses are presented for both a 100-year return period (having a likelihood of being exceeded in any single year of 1.0 percent) and a 250-year return period (having a likelihood of being exceeded in any single year of 0.4 percent). These modeled losses are presented in two ways: (i) gross catastrophe losses; and (ii) after-tax net catastrophe costs (that is, gross losses, net of reinsurance, net reinstatement premiums and taxes). The reduction for reinsurance assumes that all reinsurers fulfill their obligations in accordance with contract terms. Given the uncertainty of the frequency, severity and location of catastrophe events, we may experience losses significantly larger than the estimated PMLs in any given year.
“Florida, Wind” and “Northeast U.S., Wind” have the highest modeled after-tax net catastrophe costs for a 100 and 250-year return period single zone occurrence, respectively. These costs would represent approximately 5 percent and 6 percent, respectively, of stockholders’ equity attributable to Alleghany as of December 31, 2020, compared with approximately 7 percent and 8 percent, respectively, for the highest modeled after-tax net catastrophe costs for a 100 and 250-year return period single zone occurrence as of December 31, 2019. There is much uncertainty and imprecision in the compilation of these estimates. Moreover, the makeup of our in-force business is constantly changing as new business is added and existing contracts terminate or expire, including contracts for reinsurance coverage purchased by us. In addition, there could be possible scenarios that are not captured in our analysis. Additionally, other risks, such as an outbreak of a pandemic disease, a major terrorist event, the bankruptcy of a major company or a marine and/or aviation disaster, could also have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results.
As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not experience after-tax net catastrophe costs from individual and / or multiple events that will exceed these estimates by a material amount. There also can be no assurance that we will not experience catastrophe events more frequently than the modeled probabilities would suggest.
Recent Accounting Standards
For a discussion of recently adopted accounting standards and future application of accounting standards, see Note 1(r) to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K.
Item 7A.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 552cdd4ac74f7f018c653b989d9b4449
- Approx. Length: 32802 characters