# Context

Item 1.
Business
Overview
We are a biopharmaceutical company dedicated to the discovery, development and delivery of life-changing treatments that provide hope to underserved patient communities. Founded in 2011, our goal is to transform the treatment and care of sickle cell disease, or SCD, a lifelong, devastating inherited blood disorder that is marked by red blood cell, or RBC, destruction and occluded blood flow and hypoxia, which leads to anemia, stroke, multi-organ failure, severe pain crises, and shortened patient life span. Our mission is driven by the historical lack of understanding, investment and attention given to SCD. Although the fundamental cause of SCD has been understood for decades, therapeutic innovation and access to care have significantly lagged compared to many other rare diseases. For example, there are approximately three times more individuals in the United States living with SCD than cystic fibrosis, or CF. However, since the enactment of the Orphan Drug Act passed in 1983, only four drugs have been approved for SCD compared to 15 drugs approved for CF. As a result of the lack of treatment options, patients with SCD suffer serious morbidity and premature mortality.
Given the estimated prevalence of SCD in our current focus areas of the U.S., Europe, the Gulf Cooperation Council, or GCC, region and Latin America, we believe there is an opportunity to bring our first medicine, Oxbryta®
(voxelotor) tablets, to more than 350,000 people living with SCD in the next several years. Worldwide, there are millions of people living with SCD, which occurs predominantly in populations of African, Middle Eastern and South Asian descent and has an estimated global incidence of 250,000 to 300,000 births annually.
In November 2019, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, granted accelerated approval for Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD in adults and children 12 years of age and older. Oxbryta, an oral therapy taken once daily, is the first FDA-approved
treatment that directly inhibits sickle hemoglobin, or HbS, polymerization, the root cause of SCD.
The accelerated approval of Oxbryta was based on clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvements in hemoglobin levels, accompanied by reductions in RBC destruction (hemolysis). Data from our Phase 3 HOPE (Hemoglobin Oxygen Affinity Modulation to Inhibit HbS PolymErization) Study of 274 patients 12 years of age and older with SCD showed that, after 24 weeks of treatment, 51.1% of patients receiving the 1500 mg dose of Oxbryta, which is the approved dose, achieved a greater than 1 g/dL increase in hemoglobin compared with 6.5% receiving placebo (p<0.001), and Oxbryta had a favorable safety and tolerability profile.
By early December 2019, we began to make Oxbryta available to patients through our specialty pharmacy partner network. In addition, we established GBT Source Solutions®
, a comprehensive program for patients who are prescribed Oxbryta that provides a wide range of practical, educational and financial support customized to each patient’s needs. In addition, we have focused on securing reimbursement and expanding patient access. By the end of September 2020, one quarter ahead of our goal, we secured broad Oxbryta reimbursement coverage for 90% of lives covered by payers either through published policies or verified patient adjudication. We also secured fee-for-service
Medicaid coverage in 44 states, including all 17 priority states where most SCD patients live.
We have a number of ongoing clinical trials of Oxbryta. The Phase 2a HOPE-KIDS 1 Study, an open-label, single- and multiple-dose trial, is evaluating the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and exploratory treatment effect of Oxbryta in pediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with SCD. The Phase 3 HOPE-KIDS 2 Study, a post-approval confirmatory study we initiated in December 2019 as a condition of the accelerated approval of Oxbryta in the United States, uses transcranial Doppler, or TCD, flow velocity to seek to demonstrate a decrease in stroke risk in children 2 to 15 years of age. The ActIVe Phase 4 study, a pilot, open-label, single-arm
study, aims to evaluate the effect of Oxbryta on exercise capacity, as measured by cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) in
patients 12 years of age and older with SCD. We also expect to conduct additional clinical studies of Oxbryta, including to seek to expand the potential approved product label into younger pediatric populations as well as to study further the efficacy and safety profile of Oxbryta for SCD patients.
In January 2021, the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, accepted for review our Marketing Authorization Application, or MAA, seeking full marketing authorization of Oxbryta to treat hemolytic anemia (which is low hemoglobin due to red blood cell destruction) in SCD patients ages 12 years and older, and the MAA is undergoing standard review by the EMA. In addition, we plan to submit by mid-2021 a supplemental New Drug Application, or sNDA, to expand the current Oxbryta label to include treatment of SCD in children ages 4 to 11 years, under the FDA’s accelerated approval pathway. Thereafter, we also plan to submit a New Drug Application, or NDA, for a new age-appropriate formulation for this patient population. To provide early access prior to potentially receiving additional marketing approval, we have established an expanded access protocol for eligible SCD patients in the United States and an early access program for eligible SCD patients outside the United States. In addition, we have entered into an exclusive agreement with Biopharma-Middle East and Africa, or Biopharma-MEA,
to distribute Oxbryta in the six countries that make up the GCC region (Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates), where the U.S. approval of Oxbryta can be referenced to allow for access to the medicine while health authorities conduct their reviews.
Beyond Oxbryta, we are engaged in other research and development activities, including working on new targets to potentially develop next generation of treatments for SCD, including inclacumab, a P-selectin
inhibitor, which is a clinically validated target in SCD, known to reduce the incidence of vaso-occlusive crises, or VOCs, and our next generation hemoglobin polymerization inhibitor, GBT021601, or GBT601. As part of our efforts to build our pipeline, we regularly evaluate opportunities to in-license,
acquire or invest in new business, technology or assets or engage in related discussions with other business entities.
In March 2020, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, declared a global pandemic related to SARS-CoV-2,
the virus that causes coronavirus disease 2019, or COVID-19,
and the pandemic has impacted our business, including our commercialization of Oxbryta and our research and development activities. For example, we implemented a temporary work from home policy; temporarily suspended our field team from most in-person
interactions, including visits to physician offices, clinics and hospitals as well as in-person
meetings with payors; and temporarily delayed or paused certain research and development activities, including screening and enrollment in all clinical studies sponsored by us. As we continue to monitor and work toward resumption of all trial activities, we are continuing with administrative trial-start up activities (such as contracting and Institutional Review Board, or IRB, and Ethics Committee, or EC, approvals). Notably, the COVID-19
pandemic has not significantly impacted our supply of Oxbryta. We continue to believe we have an adequate supply of Oxbryta to sustain estimated patient need through 2021, and we are continuing to produce Oxbryta tablets.
We have seen a significant decrease in weekly new patient prescriptions for Oxbryta from a peak in early March 2020, and we expect the rate of new patient prescriptions may remain lower, depending on the course of the pandemic. While we intend to resume normal operations as soon as practicable, we do not know for certain the extent or duration of these and other disruptions or the long-term impact on our business. Since mid-March
2020, when we made the decision to suspend in-person
visits to health professionals by our field teams, we have been engaging with healthcare professionals, or HCPs, and payors through increased use of digital and internet-based education and outreach, as well as limited face-to-face
engagements in some settings following appropriate COVID-19
protocols.
Product Pipeline
The following table summarizes our approved product and our most advanced research and development programs:
Our lead development candidate is inclacumab, a novel fully human monoclonal antibody against P-selectin,
which is a clinically validated target in SCD, known to reduce the incidence of VOCs. We licensed inclacumab from F. Hoffmann-La
Roche Ltd. and Hoffmann-La
Roche Inc. (together, “Roche”) in August 2018. Prior to licensing inclacumab to us, Roche conducted clinical studies that enrolled more than 700 non-SCD
patients and demonstrated an encouraging pharmacokinetic, safety, and tolerability profile for inclacumab. We expect to be able to leverage the safety data from Roche’s prior clinical studies, as we proceed with our development of inclacumab as a potential treatment to reduce the frequency of VOCs in patients with SCD and to reduce the hospital VOC readmission rate for patients that require inpatient treatment for an initial VOC episode. We expect to initiate two pivotal clinical trials by the end of the first half of 2021. One study will be a chronic prevention study with an endpoint of the reduction in VOCs over a 48-week
treatment period, and the other study will focus on hospital readmissions with an endpoint of the reduction of the rate of readmission to hospitals for VOC within 90 days following an initial hospitalization for VOC.
Also in development is our next generation hemoglobin polymerization inhibitor, GBT601, a molecule discovered and designed by scientists at GBT. Preclinical data presented at the 62nd American Society of Hematology (ASH) Annual Meeting & Exposition and our annual Analyst and Investor Day in December 2020, showed why we believe GBT601 has the potential to be a potent hemoglobin S polymerization inhibitor and functional cure of SCD. GBT601 has the same mechanism of action as Oxbryta, but with the potential for greater efficacy by achieving higher hemoglobin occupancy at significantly lower doses. The preclinical data presented at ASH showed that GBT601 improved hemolysis and normalized hemoglobin, and also improved red blood cell survival, health and organ function. In December 2020, we initiated a Phase 1 clinical trial of GBT601 in normal healthy volunteers, and we expect to initiate by mid-2021
a Phase 1 clinical trial on the safety and tolerability of GBT601 in SCD patients.
While still in early stages, we have an ongoing collaboration with Syros Pharmaceuticals, Inc., or Syros, under License and Collaboration Agreement, or the Syros Agreement, entered into in December 2019, to discover, develop and commercialize novel therapies for SCD and beta thalassemia. We are currently exploring orally available, small molecule drugs designed to upregulate fetal hemoglobin. An increase in fetal hemoglobin by 10% to 30% can dilute the concentration of deoxygenated hemoglobin S, which can participate in polymerization, and prevent hemoglobin polymers from forming. Upregulating levels of fetal hemoglobin could be pharmacologically curative for SCD as well as beta thalassemia. Under the Syros Agreement, we have an option to obtain an exclusive worldwide license to develop, manufacture and commercialize any compounds or products resulting from the collaboration, subject to Syros’ option to co-promote
the first product in the United States.
Strategy
Our mission is to discover, develop and deliver life-changing treatments for people living with grievous blood-based disorders, starting with SCD. We believe that with our first approved medicine, Oxbryta, along with our innovative patient support program, GBT Source Solutions, we have established a strong track record of execution and have made an even stronger commitment to supporting the SCD community. Looking forward, we are working to build on the U.S. launch of Oxbryta with the potential expansion of our FDA label to treat younger patients in the United States, regulatory approval and launch in Europe and the Middle East, and to expand to Latin America. We also have a strong pipeline of potential best-in-class
therapies with inclacumab and GBT601, and we actively seek new innovations to complement our portfolio. We are a dedicated leader in SCD, and every day we pursue our goal of making SCD a well-managed chronic condition and to profoundly impact the disparities in healthcare these patients face. Key elements of our strategy are to:
Build on the U.S. launch of Oxbryta and Address Impact of COVID-19.
We launched Oxbryta in the United States in December 2019 and by the end of 2020, thousands of SCD patients were using this first-in-class
oral therapy. The growing body of real-world experience suggests that patients have improved overall health while taking Oxbryta. We expect the demand for Oxbryta to continue throughout 2021 and have several ongoing and planned initiatives to build on the ongoing launch:
•
We are deploying a variety of patient and healthcare provider marketing materials in support of the Oxbryta launch. Given our accelerated approval in the United States, all marketing materials are required to undergo FDA review before use. Several of our materials have already been approved or are currently under review. These materials include advertisements, social media campaigns, patient starter kits, guides and brochures.
•
GBT Source Solutions, our comprehensive program for patients, provides support by reviewing insurance coverage options and explaining benefits, working with the specialty pharmacy partner
•
network to coordinate delivery of Oxbryta to wherever the patient chooses, helping with financial and co-pay
assistance for eligible patients, and helping patients stay on treatment as prescribed by their treating physicians with a nurse support team. GBT Source Solutions is supported by a team of highly trained professionals and regional, field-based patient navigators that will help patients and provide resources to help HCPs understand insurance requirements and other administrative details when prescribing Oxbryta. The program features a high-touch model, including early contact to introduce the program, explain how the patient will interact with team members, and provide patient starter kits and adherence tools. Those tools include a treatment journal, a side effects management tip sheet, and bottle and app-linked
reminders for daily dosing. We believe these tools will help patients better navigate the start of their treatments and help overall adherence.
•
Our field team, which consists of approximately 60 Sickle Cell Therapeutic Specialists and 10 Regional Business Directors, continues to engage with nearly 5,000 targeted HCPs to educate them on Oxbryta’s broad label.
•
We are introducing new education materials with information on the 72-week
HOPE Study data presented at the ASH Annual Meeting & Exposition in December 2020, as well as the favorable safety and tolerability and durable efficacy seen with sustained use of Oxbryta.
Shortly after COVID-19
was declared a global pandemic in March 2020, many states where SCD is prevalent were effectively shut down and, in a matter of a few days, we pulled our salesforce from the field for their safety and that of HCPs and patients. We immediately began the process of adapting our sales approach to virtual engagements, and we reengaged HCPs via telephone and video meetings.
In June 2020, the CDC identified SCD as one of a few underlying medical conditions that place adults of any age at increased risk of severe illness and death from the virus that causes COVID-19.
We believe the
pandemic directly decreased SCD patient visits to HCPs, with SCD patient visits decreasing sharply early in the second quarter of 2020 and then recovering somewhat to remain for the rest of 2020 at about 70% to 80% of the pre-COVID-19
pandemic baseline. In addition, the weekly number of hospital inpatient admissions for VOCs decreased by 20-50%
in the second and third quarters of 2020 as compared to baseline at the beginning of 2020.
The COVID-19
pandemic also impacted new prescriptions of Oxbryta. In the first quarter of 2020, we reported 1,650 new prescriptions. Despite the increasing impact of COVID-19
starting at the end of the first quarter, we added approximately 1,000 new prescriptions in each of the remaining three quarters of 2020. We believe this is an indicator of the underlying demand for Oxbryta. It also reflects increases in the use of telemedicine by HCPs, and our field team’s virtual engagements and in-person
visits, with safety protocols in place, in the geographies that allowed in-person
interaction.
When the pandemic subsides, we expect that, over time, the number of new Oxbryta prescriptions will grow and surpass pre-COVID-19
pandemic levels. We also expect that our initiatives will help improve patient adherence to Oxbryta, which is an important lever for chronic therapies.
Expand clinical data and potential approved product labeling supporting Oxbryta.
We have a comprehensive plan to continue to build clinical evidence supporting the safety and efficacy of Oxbryta, now that our Phase 3 HOPE Study that provided the support for accelerated approval of the product has concluded. This plan includes studies designed to demonstrate that improving hemoglobin and reducing hemolysis leads to an improvement in organ dysfunction (as assessed in various organs) and exercise capacity.
We are continuing to study Oxbryta in the ongoing Phase 2a HOPE-KIDS 1 Study, an open-label, single- and multiple-dose trial evaluating the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and exploratory treatment effect of Oxbryta in pediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with SCD, and our HOPE-KIDS 2 Study, a Phase 3 clinical trial that we intend to satisfy the FDA’s requirement for us to complete at least one post-approval confirmatory study. Initiated in December 2019, our HOPE-KIDS 2 Study is using TCD flow velocity to seek to demonstrate a decrease in stroke risk in children 2 to 15 years of age. The ActIVe Phase 4 study, a pilot, open-label, single-arm
study, aims to evaluate the effect of Oxbryta on activity levels and sleep quality, as measured by actigraphy in patients 12 years of age and older with SCD. In addition, we are planning a comprehensive program to gather and evaluate real world evidence and historical data to further review the long-term connection between improvements in hemoglobin and organ damage and longer-term outcomes, with an initial focus on stroke and silent infarct. We also plan to study the potential effects of Oxbryta on leg ulcer healing, blood flow within the brain and neurocognitive function and we plan to assess pulmonary hypertension and resting oxygen saturation. These and other aspects of our overall clinical development program for Oxbryta are also intended to position us to be able to seek potential approval over time for product labeling for Oxbryta for patients younger than the current age limit (12 years old), down to as young as 9 months of age.
By mid-2021, we plan to submit a sNDA to expand the current Oxbryta label to include treatment of SCD in children ages 4 to 11 years, under the FDA’s accelerated approval pathway, which submission will include clinical data from our Phase 2a HOPE-KIDS 1 study. Thereafter, we also plan to submit an NDA for a new age-appropriate formulation for this patient population. In addition, we initiated a multi-center expanded access protocol in the United States for pediatric patients to provide access to treatment with Oxbryta prior to potential market authorization for children ages 4 to 11 years who, in the judgment of their treating physician, have an urgent need for treatment for their SCD, have no comparable or satisfactory treatment options and are unable to participate in our clinical trials.
Expand the approved use of Oxbryta in Europe, the Middle East and Latin America.
In Europe, there are approximately 52,000 SCD patients, the majority of whom are in two countries, France and the United Kingdom. In December 2020, we initiated an early access program in Europe and other regions
outside the United States, for the treatment of hemolytic anemia in SCD patients ages 12 years and older. Through the program, physicians in countries with an early access regulatory and legal pathway may be able to request voxelotor for eligible SCD patients who do not have access to the medicine as part of a clinical trial.
In January 2021, the EMA accepted for review our MAA seeking full marketing authorization of Oxbryta to treat hemolytic anemia (which is low hemoglobin due to red blood cell destruction) in SCD patients ages 12 years and older. The MAA is undergoing standard review by the EMA, and we could potentially secure approval as early as first or second quarter of 2022. The MAA is based on data from our Phase 3 HOPE Study and our Phase 2 HOPE-KIDS 1 Study, both of which enrolled patients at clinical sites in Europe. The EMA has included Oxbryta in its Priority Medicines (PRIME) program, and the European Commission, or EC, has designated Oxbryta as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of patients with SCD. In addition, we currently plan to submit a separate application for the potential approval of Oxbryta in Great Britain that would rely on the decision, if positive, taken by the EC on our current MAA, as described below under “Regulatory Path for Oxbryta in International Markets.”
In the GCC region, where there are estimated to be more than 100,000 SCD patients age 12 years and older, we established an exclusive agreement with Biopharma-MEA
to potentially secure regulatory approvals and distribute Oxbryta in the GCC region. In the GCC region, the U.S. approval of Oxbryta can be referenced to allow for access to the medicine while health authorities conduct their reviews.
In Latin America, where there are approximately 100,000 SCD patients, mostly in Brazil, we plan to establish a distribution agreement with a local partner to potentially secure regulatory approvals and distribute Oxbryta in this market.
Advance our innovative pipeline: inclacumab, GBT601 and other next-generation treatments.
Our strategy includes the expansion of our product pipeline through the discovery and development of novel therapeutic approaches for SCD and grievous blood disorders, including with our internal programs of inclacumab and GBT601 and under our collaboration with Syros. In addition, our drug discovery and business development teams actively work on an ongoing basis on new opportunities to expand our product pipeline.
Improve care for SCD patients worldwide.
The majority of the global SCD patient population is outside of the United States, including more than 75% of the global incidence in sub-Saharan
Africa and large populations in India, the Middle East, and Latin America. Each of these regions represent unique challenges to providing access due to complex healthcare systems and will require a customizable approach that meets the needs of the local community. Our clinical programs include sites outside of the United States, and participants in our clinical trials will have an opportunity to continue to receive Oxbryta until it is available in their countries. We are developing strategies to make Oxbryta available to all patients in these regions in a manner that is sustainable for us over the long term.
Key 2020 Highlights
Regulatory/Commercial
•
In 2020, we executed the commercial launch of Oxbryta in the United States, leveraging our field team and GBT Source Solutions to educate HCPs, payors and other stakeholders on Oxbryta. Over the course of the year, we secured FDA approval for patient and healthcare provider marketing materials in support of the Oxbryta launch.
•
In March 2020, we adapted our commercial launch of Oxbryta to the challenging environment created by the COVID-19
pandemic through proactive measures to reduce the risk of spreading the COVID-19
virus among our employees, customers, business partners and local communities.
•
In June 2020, we announced plans to seek the potential expansion of the use of Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD in children ages 4 to 11 years.
•
In June 2020, we announced plans to submit an MAA to the EMA for Oxbryta to treat hemolytic anemia in SCD patients ages 12 years and older by mid-2021,
and, in January 2021, we were notified that the EMA has completed the validation of the MAA we submitted and has started its standard review process.
•
In September 2020, we announced our entry into an exclusive agreement with Biopharma-MEA
to distribute Oxbryta in the GCC region.
•
As of the end of September 2020 (a quarter ahead of our goal), we achieved broad payer coverage for Oxbryta in the United States, defined as 90% of lives covered by payers either through published policies or verified patient adjudication.
•
In December 2020, we initiated two early access programs for Oxbryta. One is in Europe and other regions outside the United States, for the treatment of hemolytic anemia in eligible SCD patients ages 12 years and older, and the other is a multi-center expanded access protocol in the United States for eligible pediatric SCD patients to provide access prior to potential market authorization for children ages 4 to 11 who have no alternative treatment options.
SCD Community
•
In March 2020, as a response to the COVID-19
pandemic and its impact on the SCD community, we created the GBT Community Fund, under which we provided $150,000 in grants to support the acute needs of SCD patients and families during the pandemic. At that time, we also made a donation of $100,000 to the Sickle Cell Disease Association of America (SCDAA) in response to its urgent call for its COVID-19
Emergency Fund, and employees and members of our Board of Directors contributed more than $100,000 to support the SCD community during the pandemic.
•
In June 2020, we awarded a total of $250,000 in grants to five non-profit
organizations through our Access to Excellent Care for Sickle Cell Patients (ACCEL) Grant Program. The program provides grant funding to support novel projects aimed at improving access to high-quality healthcare for individuals with SCD.
•
In September 2020, we hosted the 9th Annual Sickle Cell Disease Therapeutics Conference, which featured discussions about the latest advances and future trends in the treatment of SCD, and the impact of COVID-19
on this vulnerable patient population.
•
In December 2020, as part of the GBT Gives Back initiative, GBT employees donated more than $40,500 to sickle cell organizations across the globe.
Medical Meeting Presentations and Publications
•
In June 2020, we presented four abstracts at the virtual edition of the 25th Annual European Hematology Association Congress. This included a retrospective analysis of data from the landmark STOP 2 study (Stroke Prevention in Sickle Cell Anemia) linking higher Hb levels to lower TCD flow velocity, a predictor of stroke risk in children with SCD, and three encore presentations of the pivotal Phase 3 HOPE Study that reinforced key attributes of Oxbryta.
•
In October 2020, we presented two abstracts that provide greater insight into the safety and efficacy of Oxbryta at the 15th Annual Scientific Conference on Sickle Cell and Thalassemia (ASCAT) and 1st EHA European Sickle Cell Conference.
•
In December 2020, we presented nine abstracts related to our SCD programs at ASH, including the 72-week
analysis of the completed Phase 3 HOPE Study of Oxbryta, real-world evidence supporting the use of Oxbryta, and new research on our pipeline programs, inclacumab and GBT601.
Corporate
•
We announced the appointment of a head of research and development who is expected to join us in May 2021 and, in August 2020, we added a chief medical officer to our senior management team.
•
In October 2020, we received the 2020 Rare Impact Award®
for Industry Innovation for Oxbryta from the National Organization for Rare Disorders (NORD); in addition, Oxbryta was selected as Breakthrough Drug of the Year by the 2020 National Xconomy Awards.
Further Details on SCD
SCD is a devastating and rare inherited blood disorder that impacts hemoglobin, a protein carried by RBCs that delivers oxygen to tissues and organs throughout the body. It attacks every organ in the body and causes a wide range of complications, including inflammation, multi-organ damage and failure and early death. Many of these start with anemia and hemolysis. Beginning in childhood, patients can suffer unpredictable and recurrent episodes or crises of severe pain due to blocked blood flow to organs, which often lead to physical and psychosocial disability. In addition, the constant destruction of RBCs and the release of their contents into the blood often leads to damaged or diseased blood vessels, which further exacerbate blood flow obstruction and multi-organ damage. Consequences of SCD can manifest in early childhood and may include stroke, spleen failure, pulmonary hypertension, acute chest syndrome, liver disease, kidney failure, leg ulcers, priapism, which is a medical emergency due to refractory penile erection, and premature death. In the United States, SCD has been estimated to shorten patient life expectancy by approximately 30 years even with available medical care.
SCD is a genetic blood disorder caused by a single gene mutation in the beta-chain of hemoglobin, which results in mutant hemoglobin known as HbS. Hemoglobin is the protein in RBCs that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body’s tissues, releases oxygen at the tissues, and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin accomplishes this by binding and then releasing oxygen through allosterism, which means the hemoglobin molecule changes its shape to have a high affinity for oxygen in the lungs, where oxygen is abundant, and to have a low affinity for oxygen in the tissues, where oxygen must be released. Oxyhemoglobin, the high oxygen affinity form of hemoglobin, is formed in the lungs during respiration, when oxygen binds to the hemoglobin molecule. Deoxyhemoglobin, the low oxygen affinity form of hemoglobin, is formed when oxygen molecules are removed from the binding site as blood flows from the lungs to the tissues in the body. In patients with SCD, deoxygenated HbS molecules polymerize to form long, rigid rods within an RBC, much like a “sword within a balloon.” As a consequence, the normally round and flexible RBC becomes rigid and elongates into a “sickled” shape. Sickled RBCs do not flow properly in the bloodstream; they clog small blood vessels and reduce blood flow to the organs. This results in inadequate oxygen delivery, or hypoxia, to all body tissues, which can lead to multi-organ failure and premature death.
The following graphic illustrates the process by which sickling occurs in SCD patients as a result of the polymerization of deoxygenated HbS in an RBC, leading to occluded blood flow, in contrast to a normal RBC:
SCD manifests in individuals who inherit at least one HbS gene from a parent and an additional mutation on the second beta globin gene from the other parent. There are several different genotypes of SCD, including the following major genotypes:
•
HbSS, or sickle cell anemia, where both genes are HbS;
•
HbSC, where one gene is HbS, and the other is HbC (inherited from a non-SCD
impacted parent); and
•
HbS/ßthal, where one gene is HbS, and the other is Beta thalassemia.
SCD Patient and Community Impact
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, or CDC, estimates the prevalence of SCD at more than 100,000 individuals in the United States. The incidence of SCD is estimated at approximately 1 in 2,000 to 2,500 newborns in the United States. In addition, there an estimated 52,000 individuals in Europe, more than 100,000 people age 12 years and older in the GCC region and approximately 100,000 individuals in Latin America, primarily in Brazil, living with the disease. SCD occurs predominantly in populations of African, Middle Eastern and South Asian descent, and the global incidence of is estimated to be 250,000 to 300,000 births annually. While newborn screening is mandatory in the United States, Brazil, Costa Rica, France, United Kingdom, Spain and Netherlands, it remains inconsistent in countries throughout other regions of the world including Europe, Latin America, Middle East, South Asia and sub-Saharan
Africa.
Of SCD patients in the United States, approximately 45% are under the age of 18, and approximately 60% to 65% have the HbSS genotype, which is often referred to as sickle cell anemia, with the remaining 35% to 40% having other genotypes. In all genotypes of SCD, the mechanism that leads to the consequences of the disease involves the polymerization of HbS in its deoxygenated state, which results in RBC sickling. Our Phase 3 HOPE Study included SCD patients with all genotypes of SCD, and showed Oxbryta is active across all SCD genotypes. As a result, Oxbryta is approved for use with all SCD genotypes.
SCD is associated with a high healthcare utilization and economic burden. It is estimated that in the United States, the annual cost of medical care for an SCD patient with complications is up to $286,000 and that end-organ
damage drives major healthcare utilization, with an average SCD patient receiving healthcare services for 30 to 54 days per year. In addition, there is potential for a significant financial burden on patients and society: it is estimated that SCD patients are deprived of approximately $700,000 in lost lifetime income, not including the impact on caregiver productivity. As a result, we believe that a safe, effective and convenient oral treatment for SCD has the potential to be well received by patients, physicians and payors.
Nearly 50% of SCD patients will experience one or more VOCs in a year. At least 80% of all hospitalizations of SCD patients are for a VOC, and in around 50% of these cases, the patient will be readmitted within 90 days for another VOC, adding to the cost of the index hospitalization. As a result, we believe that a safe, effective and convenient treatment that can reduce the frequency of VOCs and related hospital readmissions has the potential to be well received by patients, physicians and payors.
Other Current Treatment Options
There has historically been limited innovation in the development of SCD therapies and there remains a significant unmet medical need for SCD patients. In recent years this has begun to change, including the FDA approval of Oxbryta in November 2019, and a significant increase in orphan drug approvals by the FDA. However, there are limitations to other currently approved treatment options.
The first drug approved to treat SCD, known as hydroxyurea, which was initially approved as a chemotherapy drug, was approved by the FDA in 1998 for the treatment of sickle cell anemia in adults with three or more painful crises per year. The use of hydroxyurea is significantly limited by its side effect profile, variable patient responses and concerns regarding long-term toxicity. Hydroxyurea’s side effects include impairment of fertility, suppression of white blood cells, or neutropenia, and suppression of platelets, or thrombocytopenia, which place patients at risk for infection and bleeding.
In July 2017, the FDA approved L-glutamine
oral powder for patients age five and older with SCD to reduce severe complications associated with the disorder. In January 2018, Emmaus Life Sciences, Inc., the marketer for Endari®
(L-glutamine
oral powder) announced the availability of the product to patients. Endari is supplied to patients as powder that requires a large volume administration (5 grams-15 grams) mixed with liquid or food twice a day.
In November 2019, the FDA approved Adakveo®
(crizanlizumab) to reduce the frequency of VOCs, or pain crises, in adult and pediatric patients aged 16 years and older with SCD, and it was made available to patients before the end of 2019. Crizanlizumab is administered via a 30-minute
intravenous, or IV, infusion given once per month by a health care provider.
In addition to treatment with hydroxyurea, L-glutamine
and crizanlizumab, transfusions with normal blood are an option to help alleviate anemia, which is a common symptom of SCD, and reduce sickling of RBCs. Blood transfusions have a number of limitations, including the expense of treatment, lack of uniform accessibility and risks ranging from allergic reactions to serious complications such as blood-borne infection and iron overload, which can cause organ damage. The only potentially curative treatment currently available for SCD patients is bone marrow transplantation, which requires a suitable matching donor and carries significant risks, including an approximately 5% mortality rate. Despite these other current treatment options, blood transfusion and palliative therapy for acute pain attacks, patients with SCD continue to suffer serious morbidity and premature mortality.
In light of the devastating effects of SCD on patients and the high costs of care for these patients, there has been a significant unmet need for a treatment that:
•
inhibits abnormal hemoglobin polymer formation, the underlying mechanism of RBC sickling;
•
stops inappropriate RBC destruction and improves blood flow and oxygen delivery to tissues;
•
reduces hemolytic anemia that leads to chronic organ damage and early mortality in patients with SCD;
•
prevents or reduces the episodes or crises of severe pain associated with SCD;
•
modifies the long-term course of the disease;
•
is effective in all SCD genotypes and in both children and adults;
•
has a more favorable side effect profile than currently available therapies; and
•
is available as a convenient, oral therapy.
In addition, while there have been therapies approved to treat patients with VOCs, or pain crises, there remains an opportunity to improve care with a treatment that:
•
similar to crizanlizumab, reduces the frequency of VOCs, but with a more convenient dosing schedule; and
•
reduces the hospital re-admission
rate due to VOCs in patients that are admitted to the hospital for a VOC.
Oxbryta -
Mechanism, Development and Approval
In November 2019, we received FDA accelerated approval for Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD in adults and children 12 years of age and older. Oxbryta, an oral, once-daily therapy, is the first FDA-approved
treatment that directly inhibits sickle hemoglobin polymerization, the root cause of SCD. We believe the label for Oxbryta highlights several important attributes for physicians and patients, including:
•
A broad indication for use with no hemoglobin level restrictions and no clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics based on age, sex, body weight or mild to severe renal impairment;
•
A specific description of Oxbryta as a hemoglobin S polymerization inhibitor that may inhibit RBC sickling, improve RBC deformability, and reduce whole blood viscosity;
•
No restriction on use with or without hydroxyurea; and
•
Clinical data highlights from the HOPE Study, including the subject-level change from baseline in hemoglobin at week 24 in patients who completed 24 weeks of treatment with Oxbryta 1500 mg dose or placebo.
Overview of Hemoglobin Biology and Oxbryta’s Mechanism of Action
Hemoglobin transports oxygen from the lungs to the body’s tissues, releases oxygen into the tissues, and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs by changing its shape to be high affinity for oxygen in the lungs, where oxygen is abundant, and low affinity for oxygen in the tissues, where oxygen must be released. An important tool for assessing how readily hemoglobin acquires and binds oxygen in the lungs and releases oxygen into the tissues is the oxygen equilibrium curve, or OEC. The OEC represents the proportion of oxyhemoglobin, measured as the percentage of oxygen saturation (O2
% saturation) on the vertical axis relative to the amount of oxygen dissolved in blood, indicated as the oxygen tension, or partial pressure of oxygen (pO2
) measured in millimeters of mercury (mmHg), on the horizontal axis.
We have demonstrated in preclinical models that our novel hemoglobin modifiers, including Oxbryta, bind to hemoglobin, resulting in increased oxygen affinity. The effect of Oxbryta on the measured OEC is a shift of the curve to the left. In other words, at a given prevailing oxygen tension in the blood, we have observed a higher percentage of oxygen saturation, or a higher proportion of oxyhemoglobin in the blood, following the administration of Oxbryta.
In several preclinical studies of SCD, scientists have demonstrated that hemoglobin in the oxygenated state is a potent inhibitor of HbS polymerization. Since HbS polymerization occurs in the deoxygenated state, we believe that increasing the proportion of oxyhemoglobin, or “left-shifting” the OEC, should delay the polymerization of HbS and prevent the sickling of RBCs, which may ameliorate many of the clinical manifestations of SCD. Importantly, we are able to measure the proportion of hemoglobin modification (%HbMOD), which is expressed as the percentage of hemoglobin molecules occupied or bound by Oxbryta.
HbF, which is present during fetal development and persists for up to six to nine months in infants until it is replaced by adult hemoglobin, has an inherent high affinity for oxygen, which is critical for a developing fetus to capture oxygen from the mother’s blood. Newborns with SCD do not experience RBC sickling until approximately six to nine months of age, after which HbF is no longer expressed. Additionally, it has been observed that rare individuals who have inherited the HbS mutation and a gene modification that allows them to continue to express 10% to 30% HbF in their RBCs into adulthood do not exhibit the clinical manifestations of SCD, despite expressing up to 90% HbS in their blood. HbF dilutes the concentration of deoxygenated HbS that can participate in polymerization, and, thereby, prevents hemoglobin polymer from forming.
Based on these observations, during our development of Oxbryta we posited that to delay polymerization of HbS, Oxbryta would need to bind to only approximately 10% to 30% of the total hemoglobin in a patient’s blood. One theoretical concern regarding increasing the affinity of hemoglobin for oxygen is that excessive oxygen affinity could prevent hemoglobin from releasing oxygen into the tissues, thus causing hypoxia. However, we have not observed any findings from our clinical programs that demonstrated any evidence of such tissue impairment. Based on HbF data, our animal toxicology studies, and our clinical studies, we believe our target modification of the total hemoglobin in a patient’s blood does not adversely compromise oxygen delivery to the tissues. This is supported by exercise testing we have performed in SCD patients and healthy volunteers showing normal oxygen consumption and the absence of a dose level or exposure related increase in erythropoietin levels in patients enrolled in the HOPE Study.
Oxbryta increases hemoglobin’s affinity for oxygen by binding to the alpha-chain of hemoglobin. Oxbryta has been demonstrated keep a proportion of HbS in its oxygenated state so it cannot participate in polymerization. Similar to HbF, by diluting total HbS with a proportion of Oxbryta-bound hemoglobin, Oxbryta prevents hemoglobin polymer formation. Based on its mechanism of action, we believe that Oxbryta can reduce the physical and clinical manifestations of SCD.
Overview of Phase 3 and Other Oxbryta Clinical Trials
Phase 3 HOPE Study
We completed a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multi-national Phase 3 clinical trial of Oxbryta in adult and adolescent patients with SCD that we refer to as the HOPE (Hemoglobin Oxygen Affinity Modulation to Inhibit HbS PolymErization) Study, the interim results of which we used as the basis for our accelerated approval under Subpart H of FDA’s NDA regulations. Data from the Phase 3 HOPE Study of 274 patients 12 years of age and older with SCD showed that the HOPE Study met its primary endpoint of an improvement in hemoglobin greater than 1 g/dL at 24 weeks with Oxbryta 1500 mg compared with placebo: After 24 weeks of treatment, 51.1% of patients receiving Oxbryta achieved a greater than 1 g/dL increase in hemoglobin compared with 6.5% receiving placebo (p<0.001). In addition, the data demonstrated corresponding improvements in other markers of hemolysis as well as a favorable safety and tolerability profile for Oxbryta. These interim Phase 3 HOPE data were published in the June 2019 issue of the New England Journal of Medicine
.
In connection with the accelerated approval of Oxbryta, we submitted the final study report for the Phase 3 HOPE Study to the FDA in September 2020. This report included completed long-term results from the Phase 3 HOPE Study, which demonstrated that Oxbryta at 1500 mg resulted in durable improvements in hemoglobin levels and markers of hemolysis up to 72 weeks of treatment. As shown in the following graph, a large majority of patients (approximately 90%) achieved a Hb improvement of >1 g/dL from baseline at one or more time points during the study as compared to placebo (approximately 25%). The study also found significant improvements in markers of hemolysis in indirect bilirubin and reticulocyte percentage. Consistent with the 24-week
data, treatment with Oxbryta remained well tolerated. The most common side effects reported were headache, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, arthralgia, rash and pyrexia.
Hb, hemoglobin
Source: Long-Term Efficacy and Safety of Voxelator in Adolescents and Adults with Sickle Cell Disease: HOPE Trial 72-Week Analysis, ASH 2020 Poster #1716
As presented at the ASH Annual Meeting & Exposition in December 2020, the annualized incidence rates of VOCs were numerically lower in patients receiving Oxbryta 1500 mg (2.4) than placebo (2.8); and this numerical difference was greater in patients who had experienced two or more VOCs in the year prior to the study. In addition, a post-hoc
analysis of the long-term results from the Phase 3 HOPE Study found that higher hemoglobin levels achieved with Oxbryta were associated with a lower incidence of VOCs over 72 weeks. Patients with the highest average hemoglobin levels over 72 weeks experienced the fewest VOCs with Oxbryta, with a stepwise reduction in VOC rate as hemoglobin levels increased. While the Phase 3 HOPE Study was not designed or powered to show an effect on VOCs, these results suggest the importance of reducing hemolysis and raising hemoglobin in individuals with SCD through inhibition of polymerization.
Another analysis of the long-term results from the Phase 3 HOPE Study used the Clinical Global Impression of Change (CGI-C)
scale, a validated outcomes measure that provides a holistic assessment of the effect of treatment. Results showed that treatment with Oxbryta compared to placebo resulted in a statistically significant higher rating of improved overall patient health status after 72 weeks by the treating physician.
As part of the accelerated approval for Oxbryta, we agreed with the FDA to complete at least five years of follow-up
for all patients on treatment and submit to the FDA interim reports each year in June from 2021 to 2025.
Real-World Use Studies
Data and analyses from real-world experience with Oxbryta were presented at the ASH Annual Meeting & Exposition in December 2020, including:
•
An analysis evaluating Symphony Health claims data from a subset of 1,275 SCD patients ages 12 and older treated with Oxbryta, which showed statistically significant reductions in annualized transfusion rates and a reduced annual rate of VOC events following the initiation of Oxbryta therapy.
•
A study from a single-center case series showed that both patients and clinicians observed improved health status based on the Patient Global Impression - Improvement (PGI-I)
and the Clinical Global Impression - Improvement (CGI-I)
scales to examine patient and clinician perception of health status in patients treated with Oxbryta. In addition, while cases of gastrointestinal side effects were reported at a rate of incidence similar to that as the HOPE Study, patients were successfully managed with adjustments to dosing regimens and persisted on treatment.
Additional Studies
We are conducting and plan to conduct additional clinical trials of Oxbryta, including our ongoing Phase 2a HOPE-KIDS 1 Study, our recently initiated Phase 3 HOPE-KIDS 2 Study a dose optimization study, and the ActIVe Phase 4 study. The HOPE-KIDS 1 Study, the HOPE-KIDS 2 Study and other aspects of our overall clinical development program for Oxbryta are also intended to position us to be able to seek approval over time for product labeling for Oxbryta for patients younger than the current age limit (12 years old), down to as young as 9 months of age.
Phase 2a HOPE-KIDS 1 Study
We are continuing to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of single and multiple doses of Oxbryta in adolescent and pediatric patients with SCD in an ongoing Phase 2a clinical trial, which we call the HOPE-KIDS 1 Study. Initiated in August 2016, our ongoing HOPE-KIDS 1 Study is an open-label, single- and multiple-dose Phase 2a study that is evaluating the safety, tolerability, pharmacokinetics and exploratory treatment effect of Oxbryta in pediatric patients aged 4 to 17 years with SCD. Part A of the study evaluated a single 600 mg dose of Oxbryta in 13 patients aged 6 to 17 years, while Part B was designed to explore Oxbryta at doses of 900 mg and 1500 mg per day administered to 40 patients ages 12 to 17 for 24 weeks. Part C of the study is evaluating Oxbryta at a single 1500 mg dose (or weight-based equivalent) in patients age 4 to 17 years for up to 48 weeks, and Part D of the study is evaluating the safety of Oxbryta at the weight based equivalent of 1500 mg in patients age 9 months to under 4 years as measured by Treatment Emergent Adverse Events, or TEAEs, and Serious Adverse Events, or SAEs.
Part A pharmacokinetics, or PK, data in adolescents (12 to 17 years) demonstrated that the PK and half-life of Oxbryta were similar in adolescents and adults with results supporting once-daily dosing. Part A data for pediatric patients (6 to 11 years) demonstrated that PK exposures were higher in children compared with adolescents and adults, which informed dose selection for future pediatric studies in children under 12 years of age.
The primary objective of Part B was to assess the effect of Oxbryta on anemia. Secondary objectives include effect on clinical measures of hemolysis and PK profile. Additionally, we were able to assess the exploratory endpoint of TCD flow velocity measures in this study as TCD is a measure of stroke risk in pediatric and adolescent SCD patients. TCD measurement was not a primary or secondary endpoint or eligibility criteria in the HOPE KIDS-1
Study. Part B demonstrated a hematologic response to Oxbryta therapy, as evidenced by improvements in one or more markers of hemolysis and anemia (hemoglobin, unconjugated bilirubin and percentage reticulocyte counts).
Part C is currently enrolling patients age 4 to 17 years and will assess, as its primary endpoint, change in cerebral blood flow as measured by TCD flow velocity. Secondary measures include effect on clinical measures of hemolysis, change in cerebral blood flow and PK profile. We currently expect to complete the study in 2022.
Part D began enrolling patients age 9 months to under 4 years in 2020, and will assess, as its primary endpoint, the safety of a weight based equivalent of 1500 mg. Secondary measures include effect on clinical measures of hemolysis and PK profile.
Phase 3 HOPE-KIDS 2 Study
As a condition of accelerated approval of Oxbryta in the United States, and to potentially obtain full regulatory approval for Oxbryta, we will continue to study Oxbryta in the HOPE-KIDS 2 Study, a post-approval confirmatory study we initiated in December 2019 that is using TCD flow velocity to seek to demonstrate a decrease in stroke risk in children 2 to 15 years of age. HOPE-KIDS 2 is a randomized, placebo-controlled Phase 3 trial that will enroll approximately 220 patients with conditional TCD flow velocity (170-199 cm/sec) at about 50 sites in the United States, Europe and Africa. The primary objective of the study is to evaluate the effect of
Oxbryta on reducing the risk of stroke in children with SCD at 24 weeks months using mean change in TCD levels. Key secondary measures include conversion to normal or abnormal TCD at 96 weeks, change in hemoglobin over time and effect on clinical measures of hemolysis.
HOPE-KIDS 2 trial activities are ongoing and screening of participants has begun. We continue to focus on site training in the United States, Africa and MENA region, and enrollment of the first patient is planned for the first quarter of 2021. The overall treatment period will be 96 weeks, and, in connection with the accelerated approval of Oxbryta, we have agreed with the FDA to submit the interim study report by July 2025, complete the trial by March 2026 and to submit the final study report by September 2026.
Dose Optimization Study
As part of our overall life cycle management for Oxbryta, we have initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial to assess higher doses of Oxbryta, up to 3000 mg per day.
ActIVe Study
In order to demonstrate that Oxbryta provides a clinical benefit, we recently initiated the Phase 4 ActIVe (Actigraphy Improvement with Voxelotor) Study to evaluate daily physical activity in SCD patients 12 years of age and older who are on Oxbryta therapy.
Sales and Marketing
We assembled our commercial team and infrastructure, including up to approximately 75 internal sales personnel, key payer account management, marketing and patient and distribution support, ahead of our FDA approval of Oxbryta as part of our plan to commercialize Oxbryta as soon as practicable after approval. As such, we were able to make Oxbryta available in early December 2019. We plan to continue to efficiently support the commercial launch of Oxbryta with this targeted commercial organization, given the number of SCD patients in the United States and their geographic concentration primarily in only 17 states. In addition, the prescribing audience is concentrated as many SCD patients receive care from a hematologist or another sickle cell care provider.
We are also providing a comprehensive patient support program, called GBT Source Solutions, to support our commercialization. This high-touch support program helps patients through the entire process by (i) reviewing insurance coverage options and explaining benefits; (ii) working with the specialty pharmacy partner network to coordinate delivery of Oxbryta to wherever the patient chooses; (iii) helping with financial and copay assistance for eligible patients; and (iv) helping patients stay on treatment as prescribed by their treating physicians with a nurse support team.
With respect to commercializing Oxbryta outside of the United States, we are beginning to build a small team and additional capabilities that may be necessary to effectively support such potential commercialization, subject to any required approval. These capabilities will likely focus on a limited number of core European markets, where SCD is prevalent. Where appropriate, we may also utilize strategic partners, distributors or contract sales forces to expand the commercial availability of Oxbryta.
We currently do not expect that we will require large pharmaceutical partners for the commercialization of Oxbryta or our product candidates, although we may consider partnering in certain territories, New Molecular Entities, or NMEs, or indications for other strategic purposes. We intend to continue to evaluate our commercialization strategy as we advance our programs.
Competition
The biopharmaceutical industry is highly competitive. There are many public and private biopharmaceutical companies, universities, governmental agencies and other research organizations actively engaged in the research and development of products that may be similar to our product candidates or address similar markets. In addition, the number of companies seeking to develop and commercialize products and therapies similar to Oxbryta and our product candidates is likely to increase.
With respect to Oxbryta, inclacumab and GBT601, we face competition from the three currently FDA-approved
treatments: hydroxyurea (marketed under several brand names, including Siklos®
by Medunik USA, Inc., and Droxia®
by Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, as well as in generic form), approved to reduce the frequency of painful crises and need for blood transfusions in patients with sickle cell anemia for the treatment of adults and pediatric patients age two years and older with SCD; Endari®
(marketed by Emmaus Medical, Inc.), approved to reduce acute complications of SCD in patients age five years and older; and Adakveo (marketed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation), approved to reduce the frequency of VOCs in adult and pediatric patients age 16 years and older with SCD. Multiple companies are developing product candidates for chronic treatment in SCD, and several other companies are in early clinical trials to investigate new mechanisms of action for the chronic treatment of SCD. For example, Forma Therapeutics Holdings, LLC, with FT-4202,
and Agios Pharmaceuticals, Inc. with mitapivat, are separately evaluating pyruvate kinase-R,
or PKR, activators in clinical development for the potential treatment of SCD. We may also face competition from one-time
therapies for patients with severe SCD, including hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, gene therapy and gene editing. For example, bluebird bio, Inc., is currently engaged in the clinical development of LentiGlobin, which aims to treat SCD by inserting a functional human beta-globin gene into the patient’s own hematopoietic stem cells, or HSCs, ex vivo and then transplanting the modified stem cells into the patient’s bloodstream. Bluebird has indicated its plans to pursue an accelerated development and approval pathway for its gene therapy product in SCD. In addition, gene editing, which is the process of altering specific sequences of genomic DNA, is being investigated by multiple companies for the potential treatment of SCD. For example, CRISPR Therapeutics AG is currently engaged in the clinical development of CTX001 for the potential treatment of SCD, under its collaboration with Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated that is focused on the use of CRISPR’s CRISPR/Cas9 gene-editing technology to discover and develop potential new treatments aimed at the underlying genetic causes of human disease. In addition, several agents are in development for the treatment of VOC in patients with SCD.
Some of our potential competitors, alone or with their strategic partners, have substantially greater financial, technical and human resources than we do and significantly greater experience in the discovery and development of product candidates, obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals of treatments and the commercialization of those treatments. Mergers and acquisitions in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Our commercial opportunity could be reduced or eliminated if our competitors develop and commercialize products that are safer, more effective, are more convenient or are less expensive than any products that we may develop. Our competitors may also obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their products more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market.
Regulatory Path for Oxbryta in International Markets
In January 2021, the EMA validated our MAA, submitted under the Centralized Procedure, seeking full marketing authorization, or MA, of Oxbryta to treat hemolytic anemia in SCD patients ages 12 years and older. The MAA is under a standard review by the EMA and we could potentially secure regulatory approval as early as the first or second quarter of 2022.
Now that the UK (which includes Great Britain and Northern Ireland) has exited the European Union, or EU, often referred to as Brexit, Great Britain will no longer be covered by centralized MAs granted by the EC,
which, if granted, will include our MA for Oxbryta (while, under the Northern Irish Protocol, centralized MAs will continue to be recognized in Northern Ireland). As such, potential regulatory approval of Oxbryta in Great Britain will now require an application to the UK medicines regulator, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, or MHRA. For a period of two years from January 1, 2021, the MHRA may rely on a decision taken by the EC to grant an MA under the Centralized Procedure to potentially more quickly grant a new Great Britain MA, and we currently plan to utilize this pathway to seek potential approval for Oxbryta in Great Britain. A separate application will, however, still be required.
Prior to filing our MAA, in November 2016, the EC granted Orphan Drug Designation status in the EU for Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD, and, in June 2017, the EMA granted PRIME designation for Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD. The PRIME program is a regulatory mechanism that provides for early and proactive EMA support to medicine developers to help patients benefit as early as possible from innovative new products that have demonstrated the potential to significantly address an unmet medical need. In addition, we have initiated an early access program in Europe for patients and physicians who may need access to Oxbryta prior to potential marketing authorization.
In September 2020, we entered into an exclusive agreement with Biopharma-MEA
to distribute Oxbryta in the GCC region. Biopharm-MEA
is responsible for registering Oxbryta with the relevant regulatory authorities in each of the countries to potentially make it broadly available. While this process is ongoing, the U.S. approval of Oxbryta can be referenced to allow for access to the medicine in the GCC region while regulatory authorities conduct their reviews.
Manufacturing
We are commercializing a solid oral formulation of a tablet form of Oxbryta, and we believe we have obtained an adequate supply of Oxbryta to satisfy our immediate commercial, clinical and nonclinical demands. We are also developing a pediatric formulation of Oxbryta for use in clinical trials and to include in our planned pediatric NDA submission for Oxbryta.
With respect to manufacturing, we do not own or operate or have any plans to establish any manufacturing facilities. We currently depend on third-party contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, for all of our requirements of raw materials, drug substance and drug product for our commercial, clinical and nonclinical activities for our portfolio, and we have entered into commercial manufacturing agreements with some of our CMOs to support Oxbryta commercialization. We intend to continue to rely on CMOs for the commercialization as well as continued development of Oxbryta, as well as the development and commercialization of any other product candidates, including inclacumab. Although we rely on CMOs, we have personnel and third-party consultants with extensive manufacturing experience to oversee the relationships with our contract manufacturers.
To decrease the risk of an interruption to our drug supply, when we believe it is reasonable for us to do so, we source materials from multiple suppliers so that, in general, the loss of any one source of supply should not have a material adverse effect on commercial production, project timelines or inventory of supplies for our studies or clinical trials. However, currently we have only one or a limited number of suppliers for some of these materials for Oxbryta and for other programs, and the loss of a primary source of supply could potentially delay the availability of Oxbryta or delay our development programs. We intend to maintain a safety stock of certain materials to help avoid delays in production, but we do not know whether such stock will be sufficient. In addition, we have established a second source for commercial drug substance and have identified potential second sources for finished drug product for Oxbryta commercial supply. There is no guarantee as to if or when we may establish the additional sources or whether they will be adequate in all circumstances we may encounter.
Drug Discovery and Development
Our goal is to build a robust product pipeline focused on the discovery and development of novel therapeutic approaches for SCD and grievous blood disorders. Our research and development pipeline targets
multiple pathologies, including vascular occlusion and hemoglobin polymerization, and our most advanced development programs are for inclacumab and GBT601.
We have an active business development strategy that may provide new opportunities to expand our product pipeline with next-generation treatments for SCD. To this end, we have entered into agreements with Roche and Syros.
License Agreement with F. Hoffmann-La
Roche Ltd. and Hoffmann-La
Roche Inc.
In August 2018, we entered into the License Agreement, or Roche Agreement, with Roche pursuant to which Roche granted us an exclusive and sublicensable worldwide license under certain patent rights and know-how
to develop and commercialize inclacumab, including any modified compounds targeting P-selectin
and derived from inclacumab, for all indications and uses, except diagnostic use. Roche retained a non-exclusive,
worldwide, perpetual, royalty-free license to inclacumab solely for any diagnostic use.
We are developing inclacumab as a treatment for VOCs in patients with SCD, and we expect to be able to leverage the safety data from Roche’s prior clinical studies, which were not in patients with SCD, as we proceed with our development of inclacumab. We have submitted an Investigational New Drug application, or IND, to the FDA for inclacumab to initiate two pivotal Phase 3 clinical studies in the first half of 2021. The two global, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled pivotal Phase 3 trials will evaluate the safety and efficacy of inclacumab. One study is designed to measure the reduction in frequency of VOCs over one year in patients with SCD when treated with inclacumab (30 mg/kg) or placebo every 12 weeks. The second study will evaluate inclacumab based on a primary endpoint of 90-day
hospital readmission rates for VOC following an initial VOC hospitalization. Participants in that trial will receive either a single dose of inclacumab (30 mg/kg) or placebo, peri-discharge following a VOC hospitalization.
Under the Roche Agreement, we paid Roche an upfront payment of $2.0 million, and we will pay Roche up to an aggregate of $125.5 million in milestone payments for the SCD indication, including up to $40.5 million based on achievement of certain clinical development and regulatory milestones for inclacumab in the sickle cell disease indication, and up to $85.0 million based on achievement of certain thresholds for annual net sales of inclacumab. We will also pay Roche up to an additional $6.4 million in milestone payments, which are owed to a third party, based on achievement of such clinical development and regulatory milestones for inclacumab. As of December 31, 2020, we have recognized a $2.0 million clinical development milestone payment in our research and development costs for year ended December 31, 2020. We will also pay Roche up to $19.25 million in milestone payments based on achievement of certain clinical development and regulatory milestones for inclacumab for any other indication than the SCD indication. We have the right to sublicense our rights under the Roche Agreement to our affiliates without Roche’s consent. Subject to certain conditions and limitations, including Roche’s right of first negotiation described below, we will also have the right to sublicense our rights under the Roche Agreement to non-affiliates
pursuant to partner agreements with Roche’s prior written consent, which will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If at any time prior to the expiration of royalty or other payment obligations under the Roche Agreement, or the earlier termination of the Roche Agreement, we intend to enter into a partner agreement to sublicense rights to inclacumab, then Roche will have a right of first negotiation during an exclusivity period to negotiate in good faith with us the terms and conditions of such proposed transaction.
Collaboration with Syros Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
In December 2019, we entered into the Syros Agreement to discover, develop and commercialize novel therapies for SCD and beta thalassemia. Under the agreement, Syros will use its leading gene control platform to identify therapeutic targets and discover small molecule drugs that potentially induce fetal hemoglobin, and we have an option to obtain an exclusive worldwide license, with the right to sublicense, under relevant intellectual property rights and know-how
of Syros arising from the collaboration, to develop, manufacture and
commercialize any compounds or products resulting from the collaboration, subject to Syros’ option to co-promote
the first product in the United States. If we exercise the option, we will be responsible for all development, manufacture, regulatory activities and commercialization of the compound or product. Syros and we will be responsible for our own costs incurred to conduct research activities, except that we will fund up to $40.0 million in preclinical research for at least three years. Unless earlier terminated or extended, the research program under the agreement will end on the third anniversary of the agreement.
Under the Syros Agreement, we paid Syros an upfront payment of $20.0 million, and, if we exercise the option, we may be obligated to pay Syros up to $315.0 million in option exercise, development, regulatory, commercialization and sales-based milestones per product candidate and product resulting from the collaboration. We will also be obligated to pay Syros, subject to certain reductions, tiered mid-
to high-single digit royalties as percentages of calendar year net sales on any product resulting from the collaboration.
Social, Governance and Human Capital
Diversity & Inclusion
Since our founding, we have recognized that having a more diverse, inclusive, and equitable environment leads to increased performance, better decision making, increased productivity, and greater motivation. Our team represents a broad range of cultural and professional backgrounds that enrich our culture and drive our future growth and success. We are committed to fostering workplace development, diversity, and inclusion, or WDDI, at our company and across the biotechnology industry. We are dedicated to being at the forefront of efforts to develop a diverse and talented global workforce. We pledge to do our part to foster diversity and inclusion among our employees, customers and patients.
Human Capital Resources
As of December 31, 2020, we employed 389 full-time employees globally, including 154 in research and development and 235 in selling, general and administrative, which includes our commercial team. We have and expect to continue to retain consultants from time to time if required in connection with our business.
We consider our employees to be an essential factor in our ability to serve our customers and achieve our goal to transform the treatment of SCD, which depends on our ability to continue to attract, hire, and retain qualified personnel. We believe our employee turnover has historically been relatively low and below the average for life science companies, but with our recent headcount growth and evolution into a commercial-stage company, as well as the impact of the COVID-19
pandemic, we have experienced an increase in the number of employees leaving the company. Given our financial resources and our track record, we continue to be able to fill the vacated positions and grow our headcount in support of our mission.
To help attract, hire and retain skilled personnel, we offer a stimulating work environment, regular performance feedback, development opportunities, potential for career advancement, and a workplace culture focused on our mission and the wellbeing of our employees. In addition, we also monitor and periodically adjust our compensation programs with the goal of providing a competitive mix of compensation (including salary, incentive bonus and equity) and benefits packages.
We have never had a work stoppage, and none of our employees is represented by a labor organization or under any collective-bargaining arrangements. We consider our employee relations to be good.
Intellectual Property
We strive to protect the proprietary technology that we believe is important to our business, including seeking and maintaining patents and patent applications intended to cover Oxbryta and our product candidates
and compositions, their methods of use and processes for their manufacture, and any other aspects of inventions that are commercially important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection.
We plan to continue to expand our intellectual property portfolio. We endeavor to promptly file domestic and international patent applications for new commercially valuable inventions, including applications directed to compositions and methods of treatment created or identified from our ongoing development of our product candidates. Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other proprietary rights protecting our commercially important technology, inventions and know-how
related to our business, defend and enforce our current and future issued patents, if any, preserve the confidentiality of our trade secrets and operate without infringing the valid and enforceable patents and proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely on know-how,
continuing technological innovation and potential in-licensing
opportunities to develop and maintain our intellectual property portfolio.
The patent positions of biopharmaceutical companies like us are generally uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent, if any, is issued, and patent scope can be reinterpreted by the courts after issuance. Moreover, many jurisdictions permit third parties to challenge issued patents in administrative proceedings, which may result in further narrowing or even cancellation of patent claims. We cannot predict whether the patent applications we are currently pursuing will issue as patents in any particular jurisdiction or whether the claims of any patents, if issued, will provide sufficient protection from competitors for our business.
Because patent applications in the United States and certain other jurisdictions are maintained in secrecy for 18 months or potentially even longer, and since publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature often lags behind actual discoveries, we cannot be certain of the priority of inventions covered by pending patent applications. Moreover, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or derivation proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to determine the priority of inventions.
Patents
Our patent portfolio includes multiple issued U.S. and foreign patents, as well as multiple U.S. and foreign patent applications in various stages of prosecution or allowance. Our primary patents and patent applications relate to our general HbS intellectual property portfolio, which includes Oxbryta and its analogs.
Our HbS intellectual property portfolio is comprised of multiple patent families of patents and patent applications relating to Oxbryta and/or analogs that inhibit Hb polymerization. These patent families include patents and patent applications specifically related to Oxbryta, covering certain compositions of matter, methods of use, method of manufacture, commercial formulations, and polymorphs of Oxbryta and analogs. The pending patent applications are in a variety of jurisdictions, including the United States, jurisdictions under the Patent Cooperation Treaty and other countries.
With regard to Oxbryta specifically, we are the sole owner of issued U.S. patents covering Oxbryta, including its composition of matter, methods of use, formulations and polymorphs of Oxbryta. These issued U.S. patents covering Oxbryta are listed in the FDA Orange Book and will expire between 2032 and 2037, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Also with regard to Oxbryta specifically, we are the sole owner of issued composition of matter patents in Europe and certain other foreign jurisdictions. Any patents that may issue from our pending patent applications relating to Oxbryta in the United States or from corresponding foreign patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire between 2032 and 2037, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Some of these pending patent applications are jointly owned by us and Regents of the University of California, or the Regents, as described below.
Our other patents in our HbS intellectual property portfolio are comprised of additional issued U.S. patents covering Oxbryta analogs. These patents, and any patents that may issue from our pending patent applications
relating to Oxbryta analogs in the United States or from corresponding foreign patent applications, if issued, are currently expected to expire between 2032 and 2039, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Some of these pending patent applications are jointly owned by us and the Regents, as described below. With regard to GBT601 specifically, we are the sole owner of an issued U.S. patent covering its composition of matter, which will expire in 2039, absent any applicable patent term extensions. Any foreign patents, if issued from the same patent family, are expected to expire in 2039, absent any applicable patent term extensions.
With regard to inclacumab, we are the exclusive worldwide licensee of Roche’s patent portfolio relating to inclacumab, which includes issued U.S. and foreign patents and pending applications covering the composition of matter of inclacumab. We expect inclacumab to be eligible for regulatory exclusivity (e.g., data exclusivity for biologics and orphan drug exclusivity) in various jurisdictions such as the U.S. and Europe, which exclusivities may extend beyond patent expiry. For example, we expect inclacumab, if approved, would be eligible for regulatory exclusivity (e.g., data exclusivity for biologics and orphan drug exclusivity) in various jurisdictions such as the U.S. and Europe, which exclusivities may extend beyond patent expiry in the case of inclacumab.
In addition, we have exclusively licensed from the Regents worldwide patent rights covering Oxbryta and certain Oxbryta analogs, some of which patent rights we jointly own with the Regents. In exchange for our exclusive license, we have agreed to pay a royalty to the Regents of less than 1% on future net sales and to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop, manufacture, market and sell the products covered by the licensed patents. The risks associated with joint ownership of patent rights are more fully discussed under “Risk Factors-Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property.”
Beyond our HbS intellectual property portfolio, we own other issued U.S. and foreign patents, seek to obtain additional issued patents, and file patent applications relating to our other research and development programs over time.
Patent term
The base term of a U.S. patent is 20 years from the filing date of the earliest-filed non-provisional
patent application from which the patent claims priority, assuming that all maintenance fees are paid. The term of a U.S. patent can be lengthened by patent term adjustment, which compensates the owner of the patent for administrative delays at the USPTO, the extent of which is offset by delays by the patent owner before the USPTO in obtaining the patent. In some cases, the term of a U.S. patent is shortened by a terminal disclaimer that reduces its term to that of an earlier-expiring patent. The term of a U.S. patent may be eligible for patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Act, to account for at least some of the time the drug is under development and regulatory review after the patent is granted. With regard to a drug for which FDA approval is the first permitted marketing of the active ingredient, the Hatch-Waxman Act allows for extension of the term of one U.S. patent that includes at least one claim covering the composition of matter of an FDA-approved
drug, an FDA-approved
method of treatment using the drug and/or a method of manufacturing the FDA-approved
drug. The extended patent term cannot exceed the shorter of five years beyond the non-extended
expiration of the patent or 14 years from the date of the FDA approval of the drug. Some foreign jurisdictions, including Europe and Japan, have analogous patent term extension provisions, which allow for extension of the term of a patent that covers a drug approved by the applicable foreign regulatory agency. Following the FDA approval of Oxbryta, we applied for patent term extension Oxbryta, and we would expect to do the same for any other eligible product candidate that receives FDA approval in the future.
Trade secrets
In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and know-how
to develop and maintain our competitive position. We typically rely on trade secrets to protect aspects of our business that are not amenable to, or that we do not consider appropriate for, patent protection. We protect trade secrets and know-how
by establishing
confidentiality agreements and invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, scientific advisors and contractors. These agreements generally provide that all confidential information developed or made known during the course of an individual or entities’ relationship with us must be kept confidential during and after the relationship. These agreements also typically provide that all inventions resulting from work performed for us or relating to our business and conceived or completed during the period of employment or assignment, as applicable, shall be our exclusive property. In addition, we take other appropriate precautions, such as physical and technological security measures, to guard against misappropriation of our proprietary information by third parties.
Government Regulation
Government authorities in the United States at the federal, state and local level and in other countries extensively regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of drug products. Pricing of such products is also subject to regulation in many countries. Generally, before a new drug can be marketed, considerable data demonstrating its quality, safety and efficacy must be obtained, organized into a format specific to each regulatory authority, submitted for review and approved by the regulatory authority.
U.S. drug development
In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations. Drugs are also subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state, local and foreign statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or after approval may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include, among other actions, the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, a clinical hold, untitled or warning letters, voluntary product recalls or withdrawals from the market, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement, or civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us.
Our product candidates must be approved by the FDA through the NDA process before they may be legally marketed in the United States. The process generally involves the following:
•
completion of extensive nonclinical studies in accordance with applicable regulations, including the FDA’s GLP regulations;
•
submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin;
•
approval by an independent institutional review board, or IRB, or ethics committee at each clinical trial site before each trial may be initiated;
•
performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with applicable IND regulations, good clinical practices, or GCPs, and other clinical-trial related regulations to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational drug for each proposed indication;
•
submission to the FDA of an NDA for a new drug;
•
a determination by the FDA within 60 days of its receipt of an NDA whether to accept it for filing and review;
•
satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval
inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the drug is produced to assess compliance with current good manufacturing practices, or
cGMPs, to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug’s identity, strength, quality and purity;
•
potential FDA audit of the nonclinical study and/or clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the NDA; and
•
FDA review and approval of the NDA, including consideration of the views of any FDA advisory committee, prior to any commercial marketing or sale of the drug in the United States.
The nonclinical and clinical testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approvals for any of our product candidates, will be granted on a timely basis, or at all. The data required to support an NDA are generated in two distinct development stages: nonclinical and clinical. The nonclinical development stage generally involves synthesizing the active component, developing the formulation and determining the manufacturing process, as well as carrying out non-human
toxicology, pharmacology and drug metabolism studies in the laboratory, which support subsequent clinical testing in humans. As the drug sponsor, we must submit the results of the nonclinical studies, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and a proposed clinical protocol, to the FDA as part of the IND. An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational drug product to humans and must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. The IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless the FDA raises concerns or questions regarding the proposed clinical trial and places the IND on clinical hold within that 30-day
time period. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns or questions before the clinical trial can begin. The FDA also may impose a partial clinical hold that would limit a trial, for example, to certain doses or for a certain length of time or to a certain number of subjects.
The clinical stage of development involves the administration of the drug candidate to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the trial sponsor’s control, in accordance with GCPs, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria, and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety and assess efficacy. Each protocol, and any subsequent amendments to the protocol, must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Further, each clinical trial must be reviewed and approved by an independent IRB for each institution at which the clinical trial will be conducted to ensure that the risks to individuals participating in the clinical trials are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the informed consent form that must be provided to each clinical trial subject or his or her legal representative and must monitor the clinical trial until completed. There are also requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical trials and completed clinical trial results to public registries.
Clinical trials
Clinical trials are generally conducted in three sequential phases, known as Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 trials, which may overlap.
•
Phase 1 clinical trials generally involve a small number of healthy volunteers who are initially exposed to a single dose and then multiple doses of the product candidate. The primary purpose of these clinical trials is to assess the metabolism, pharmacologic action, side effect tolerability and safety of the product candidate.
•
Phase 2 clinical trials typically involve studies in disease-affected patients to determine the dose of the product candidate required to produce the desired benefits. At the same time, safety and further pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic information is collected, possible adverse effects and safety risks are identified, and a preliminary evaluation of efficacy is conducted.
•
Phase 3 clinical trials generally involve large numbers of patients at multiple sites and are designed to provide the data necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of the product candidate for its intended use, its safety in use, and to establish the overall benefit/risk relationship of the product candidate and provide an adequate basis for product approval. Phase 3 clinical trials may include comparisons with placebo and/or other comparator treatments. The duration of treatment is often extended to mimic the actual use of a product during marketing.
Post-approval trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, may be conducted after initial marketing approval, to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. In certain instances, the FDA may mandate the performance of Phase 4 clinical trials as a condition of approval of an NDA. In addition, as part of an accelerated approval such as we received for Oxbryta under the FDA’s Subpart H regulations, at least one post-marketing study to verify clinical benefit is required.
As the drug sponsor, we must submit progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials and other information at least annually to the FDA, as well as written IND safety reports to the FDA and the study investigators for serious and unexpected suspected adverse events, findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing suggesting a significant risk to humans exposed to the drug and any clinically important increase in the rate of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. The sponsor must submit an IND safety report within 15 calendar days after the sponsor determines that the information qualifies for reporting. The sponsor also must notify the FDA of any unexpected fatal or life-threatening suspected adverse reaction within seven calendar days after the sponsor’s initial receipt of the information. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. Additionally, some clinical trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical trial sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group provides authorization for whether or not a trial may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the trial. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and must also develop additional information about the chemistry and physical characteristics of the drug as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the drug candidate and, among other things, must include methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final drug product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the drug candidate does not undergo unacceptable deterioration over its shelf life.
A manufacturer of an investigational drug for a serious disease or condition is required to make available, such as by posting on its website, its policy on evaluating and responding to requests for individual patient access to such investigational drug. This requirement applies on the earlier of the first initiation of a Phase 2 or Phase 3 trial of the investigational drug or, as applicable, 15 days after the drug receives a designation as a breakthrough therapy, fast track product or regenerative advanced therapy.
NDA and FDA review process
The results of nonclinical studies and clinical trials, together with other detailed information, including extensive manufacturing information and information on the composition of the drug and proposed labeling, are submitted to the FDA in the form of an NDA requesting approval to market the drug for one or more specified indications. The FDA reviews an NDA to determine, among other things, whether a drug is safe and effective for its intended use and whether the product is being manufactured in accordance with cGMP requirements to assure and preserve the product’s identity, strength, quality and purity. FDA approval of an NDA must be obtained before a drug may be legally marketed in the United States.
Under PDUFA, each NDA is typically accompanied by a user fee (adjusted on an annual basis). According to the FDA’s fee schedule, effective through September 30, 2021, the user fee for an NDA is $2,875,842. PDUFA also imposes an annual prescription drug product program fee for human drugs ($336,432). Fee waivers or reductions are available in certain circumstances, including a waiver of the application fee for the first application filed by a small business having fewer than 500 employees. Additionally, an application for a product that has been designated as a drug for a rare disease or condition (referred to as an orphan drug) under section 526 of the FDCA is not subject to an application fee unless the application includes an indication for other than a rare disease or condition. Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD has been granted orphan drug designation by the FDA and by the EC.
The FDA reviews all NDAs submitted before it accepts them for filing and may request additional information rather than accepting an NDA for filing. The FDA is supposed to make a decision on accepting an NDA for filing within 60 days of receipt of the submission. Once the NDA is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth
review of the NDA. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under PDUFA, the FDA is supposed to complete its initial review of an NDA that it has accepted for review and respond to the applicant within stated periods (within 10 months for a standard NDA and six months for an NDA designated by the agency for priority review). However, the FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority NDAs, and the review process is often significantly extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification.
Before approving an NDA, the FDA will conduct a pre-approval
inspection of the manufacturing facilities for the new product (including the facilities of contract manufacturers, if applicable) to determine whether they comply with cGMP requirements. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. The FDA may also audit data from clinical trials to ensure compliance with GCP requirements. Additionally, the FDA may refer applications for novel drug products or drug products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions. The FDA is not bound by the recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations carefully when making decisions. There are likely to be extensive discussions between the FDA and the applicant during the review process. The review and evaluation of an NDA by the FDA is very comprehensive and time consuming and may take longer than originally planned to complete.
In addition, under Subpart H of the FDA’s NDA regulations, which governs accelerated approval, the FDA may approve an NDA for a new drug product on the basis of adequate and well-controlled clinical trials establishing that the drug product has an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit or on the basis of an effect on a clinical endpoint other than survival or irreversible morbidity. The FDA grants accelerated approval under Subpart H for new drugs that address serious or life-threatening illnesses and that provide meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments, and the NDA for Oxbryta was approved by the FDA under Subpart H. Drugs approved under Subpart H, such as Oxbryta, are required to be further evaluated in at least one post-marketing study to verify clinical benefit. As a condition of accelerated approval, the FDA may also impose marketing restrictions to limit distribution or use to assure safe use of the drug, although the FDA did not impose any such requirements for the accelerated approval of Oxbryta. Pursuing accelerated approval under Subpart H does not ensure faster development timelines or ensure regulatory approval.
After the FDA evaluates an NDA, it will issue an approval letter or a complete response letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A complete response letter indicates that the review cycle of the application is complete and the application will not be approved in its present form, and usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA identified by the FDA. The complete response letter may require additional clinical data and/or additional clinical trial(s), and/
or other significant and time-consuming requirements related to clinical trials, nonclinical studies or manufacturing. If a complete response letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, withdraw the application, or request a hearing. Even if such data and information is submitted, the FDA may ultimately decide that the NDA does not satisfy the criteria for approval.
United States Orphan drug designation
We were granted orphan drug designation by the FDA in 2015 for Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD. Under the Orphan Drug Act in the United States, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug product intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United States (or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States when there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making available in the United States a drug for such disease or condition will be recovered from sales in the United States of such drug). Orphan product designation must be requested before submitting an NDA. After the FDA grants orphan product designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan product designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process, but does confer other potential development and commercialization benefits as described below.
Our NDA seeking approval for Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD qualified for the orphan user fee exemption from the PDUFA application fee. In addition, we should qualify for additional incentives, including tax credits for qualifying clinical trials of Oxbryta, and Oxbryta also qualified for a substantial period of regulatory market exclusivity, which will expire on November 25, 2026. If a product that has orphan designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan product exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years from the date of such approval, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan exclusivity by means of greater effectiveness, greater safety, or by providing a major contribution to patient care. Competitors, however, may receive approval of different products for the indication for which the orphan product has exclusivity and may obtain approval for the same product for a different indication than that for which the orphan product has exclusivity. A competitor could also block the approval of one of our products for seven years by obtaining orphan product exclusivity for the same product (or a competitor product that contains our product candidate) for the same indication we are seeking. If a drug designated as an orphan product receives marketing approval for an indication broader than what is designated, it may not be entitled to orphan product exclusivity. Orphan drug status in the EU has similar, but not identical, requirements and benefits.
Expedited development and review programs
In addition to the US orphan drug designation, Oxbryta received a Fast Track designation from the FDA for the potential treatment of SCD. The FDA’s Fast Track program is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs that are intended to treat a serious or life threatening condition, where nonclinical or clinical data demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Fast Track designation applies to both the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied.
Any product submitted to the FDA for marketing, including under a Fast Track program, may be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval under Subpart H. Any product is eligible for priority review if it treats a serious or life-threatening condition and, if approved, would provide a significant improvement in safety and effectiveness compared to available therapies. The FDA will attempt to direct additional resources to the evaluation of an application for a new drug designated for priority review. Our NDA for Oxbryta was reviewed by the FDA pursuant to priority review and received accelerated approval under Subpart H.
Additionally, Oxbryta also received a breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA for the potential treatment of SCD. The benefits of breakthrough therapy designation include the same benefits as a Fast Track
designation, in addition to intensive guidance from the FDA to ensure an efficient drug development program. Fast Track designation, priority review, accelerated approval and breakthrough designation do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process.
Pediatric information
Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, as amended, an NDA or supplement to an NDA must contain data to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of pediatric data or full or partial waivers. A sponsor who is planning to submit a marketing application for a drug that includes a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration is required to submit an initial Pediatric Study Plan, or PSP, within sixty days of an end-of-Phase
2 meeting or, if there is no end-of-Phase
2 meeting as early as practicable before the initiation of the Phase 3 or Phase 2/3 study. The initial PSP must include an outline of the pediatric study or studies that the sponsor plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, age groups, relevant endpoints and statistical approach, or a justification for not including such detailed information, and any request for a deferral of pediatric assessments or a full or partial waiver of the requirement to provide data from pediatric studies along with supporting information. The FDA and the sponsor must reach agreement on the PSP. A sponsor can submit amendments to an agreed-upon initial PSP at any time if changes to the pediatric plan need to be considered based on data collected from nonclinical studies, early phase clinical trials, and/or other clinical development programs. Generally, a drug product that has an indication for which orphan drug designation has been granted is exempt from the requirement to contain an assessment of the safety and effectiveness of the product for the claimed indication in pediatric patients. Thus, our NDA for Oxbryta was not required to have this PREA assessment.
Post-marketing requirements
Following approval of a new product, a pharmaceutical company and the approved product are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, monitoring and recordkeeping activities, submission of an NDA annual report, reporting of adverse experiences, product sampling and distribution requirements, and complying with complex promotion and advertising requirements, which include restrictions on promoting drugs for uses or for patient populations for which the drug was not approved (known as “off-label
use”), and limitations on industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities and on interactions with healthcare providers. Although physicians may prescribe legally available drugs for off-label
uses, manufacturers may not market or promote such off-label
uses. Prescription drug promotional materials must be submitted to the FDA in conjunction with the first use of these materials, and may be required to be reviewed in advance in certain circumstances such as a new product launch, including for drugs such as Oxbryta that are approved pursuant to the FDA’s Subpart H accelerated approval regulations. After 120 days following marketing approval, promotional materials for accelerated approval drugs must be submitted 30 days prior to use. Further, if there are any modifications to the drug, including changes in indications, labeling, or manufacturing processes or facilities, the pharmaceutical company may be required to submit and obtain FDA approval of a new NDA or NDA supplement, which may require additional data or the conduct of additional nonclinical studies and clinical trials. Newly discovered or developed safety or effectiveness data may require changes to a drug’s approved labeling, including the addition of new warnings and contraindications, and also may require the implementation of other risk management measures, including a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, or the conduct of post-marketing studies to assess a newly discovered safety issue. The FDA has authority to require post-market studies, in certain circumstances, on reduced effectiveness of a drug and the FDA may require labeling changes related to new reduced effectiveness information.
Any distribution of prescription drug products and pharmaceutical samples must comply with the U.S. Prescription Drug Marketing Act, or PDMA, which regulates the distribution of drugs and drug samples at the federal level, and sets minimum standards for the registration and regulation of drug distributors by the states.
Both the PDMA and state laws limit the distribution of prescription pharmaceutical product samples and impose requirements to ensure accountability in distribution. The Drug Supply Chain Security Act, or DSCSA, was enacted in 2013 with the aim of building an electronic system to identify and trace certain prescription drugs distributed in the United States. The DSCSA mandates phased-in
and resource-intensive obligations for pharmaceutical manufacturers, wholesale distributors, and dispensers over a 10-year
period that is expected to culminate in November 2023. The law’s requirements include the quarantine and prompt investigation of a suspect product, to determine if it is illegitimate, and notifying trading partners and the FDA of any illegitimate product. Drug manufacturers and their collaborators are also required to place a unique product identifier on prescription drug packages. This identifier consists of the National Drug Code, serial number, lot number and expiration date, in the form of a two dimensional data matrix barcode that can be read by humans and machines.
FDA regulations require that products be manufactured in specific approved facilities and in accordance with cGMP requirements. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our products in accordance with cGMP requirements. Our third party manufacturers must comply with cGMP requirements that require among other things, quality control and quality assurance, the maintenance of records and documentation, and the obligation to investigate and correct any deviations from cGMP. Drug manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. The discovery of violative conditions, including failure to conform to cGMP requirements, could result in enforcement actions, and the discovery of problems with a product after approval may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA, including recall.
Orange Book Listing
Section 505 of the FDCA describes three types of marketing applications that may be submitted to the FDA to request marketing authorization for a new drug. A Section 505(b)(1) NDA is an application that contains full reports of investigations of safety and efficacy. A Section 505(b)(2) NDA is an application in which the applicant, in part, relies on investigations that were not conducted by or for the applicant and for which the applicant has not obtained a right of reference or use from the person by or for whom the investigations were conducted. Section 505(j) establishes an abbreviated approval process for a generic version of approved drug products through the submission of an Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA. An ANDA provides for marketing of a generic drug product that has the same active ingredients, dosage form, strength, route of administration, labeling, performance characteristics and intended use, among other things, to a previously approved product. Limited changes must be preapproved by the FDA via a suitability petition. ANDAs are termed “abbreviated” because they are generally not required to include nonclinical and clinical data to establish safety and efficacy. Instead, generic applicants must scientifically demonstrate that their product is bioequivalent to, or performs in the same manner as, the innovator drug through in vitro
, in vivo
, or other testing. The generic version must deliver the same amount of active ingredients into a subject’s bloodstream in the same amount of time as the innovator drug and can often be substituted by pharmacists under prescriptions written for the reference listed drug.
In seeking approval for a drug through an NDA, including a 505(b)(2) NDA, applicants are required to list with the FDA certain patents having claims that cover the applicant’s product and method of use. Upon approval of an NDA, each of the patents listed in the application for the drug is then published in Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, also known as the Orange Book. These products may be cited by potential competitors in support of approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA.
Any applicant who files an ANDA seeking approval of a generic equivalent version of a drug listed in the Orange Book or a 505(b)(2) NDA referencing a drug listed in the Orange Book must make patent certifications
to the FDA relating to patents submitted to the FDA for the reference product: (1) that no patent information on the reference drug or method of use that is the subject of the application has been submitted to the FDA; (2) that any and all such patents submitted to the FDA have expired; (3) the date on which any such patent will expire and that ANDA approval will not be sought until after such patent expiration; or (4) that any such patent is invalid or will not be infringed upon by the manufacture, use, or sale of the drug product for which the ANDA is submitted. The last certification is known as a paragraph IV certification. Generally, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA cannot be approved until all listed patents have expired, except where the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant challenges a listed patent through a paragraph IV certification or if the applicant is not seeking approval of a patented method of use. If the applicant does not challenge the listed patents or does not indicate that it is not seeking approval of a patented method of use, the ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA application will not be approved until all of the listed patents claiming the referenced product have expired.
If the competitor has provided a paragraph IV certification to the FDA, the competitor must also send notice of the paragraph IV certification to the holder of the NDA for the reference listed drug and the patent owner within 20 days after the application has been accepted for filing by the FDA. The NDA holder or patent owner may then initiate a patent infringement lawsuit in response to the notice of the paragraph IV certification. The filing of a patent infringement lawsuit within 45 days of the receipt of a paragraph IV certification notice prevents the FDA from approving the ANDA or 505(b)(2) application until the earlier of 30 months from the date of the lawsuit, expiration of the patent, settlement of the lawsuit, a decision in the infringement case that is favorable to the applicant or such shorter or longer period as may be ordered by a court. This prohibition is generally referred to as the 30-month
stay.
In instances where an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA applicant files a paragraph IV certification, the NDA holder or patent owners regularly take action to trigger the 30-month
stay, recognizing that the related patent litigation may take many months or years to resolve. Thus, approval of an ANDA or 505(b)(2) NDA could be delayed for a significant period of time depending on the patent certification the applicant makes and the reference drug sponsor’s decision to initiate patent litigation.
In connection with the NDA submission and approval of the NDA for Oxbryta, we have listed six patents in the Orange Book for Oxbryta.
United States patent term restoration and marketing exclusivity and biosimilars in the U.S. and EU
Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of the FDA approval of Oxbryta and any of our drug candidates, some of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit a patent restoration term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and the FDA regulatory review process. However, patent term restoration cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product’s approval date. The patent term restoration period is generally one-half
the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA, plus the time between the submission date of an NDA and the approval of that application, except that the review period is reduced by any time during which the applicant failed to exercise due diligence. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the patent term extension and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent. The United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves any application for patent term extension or restoration. Following the FDA approval of Oxbryta, we applied for restoration of patent term (also referred to as patent term extension) for Oxbryta.
Marketing exclusivity provisions under the FDCA provide a five-year period of non-patent
marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to obtain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the
exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an ANDA or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another drug based on the same active moiety, regardless of whether the drug is intended for the same indication as the original innovator drug or for another indication, where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement
to one of the patents listed with the FDA by the innovator who holds the NDA for the active agent. The FDA has granted Oxbryta five-year marketing exclusivity, which will expire on November 25, 2024.
The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, or supplement to an existing NDA for a drug product that contains an active moiety that has been previously approved if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example for new indications, dosages or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the modification for which the drug received approval on the basis of the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the active agent for the original indication or condition of use.
Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA by a competitor. However, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the nonclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and efficacy. Pediatric exclusivity is another type of regulatory market exclusivity in the United States which, if granted, adds six months to the end of existing exclusivity periods and patent terms, and may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric trial in accordance with an FDA-issued
pre-approval
written request for such a pediatric trial where information relating to the use of the product candidate in a pediatric population may produce health benefits in that population.
In addition, in the United States, the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 created an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products that are demonstrated to be “highly similar” or “biosimilar” to or “interchangeable” with an FDA approved biological product. This pathway allows competitors to reference the FDA’s prior approvals regarding innovative biological products and data submitted with a BLA to obtain approval of a biosimilar application twelve years after the time of approval of the innovative biological product. The twelve-year exclusivity period runs from the initial approval of the innovator product and not from approval of a later new indication, if any. In addition, the twelve-year exclusivity period does not prevent another company from independently developing a product that is highly similar to the innovative product, generating all the data necessary for and seeking approval under a full BLA. Further, it is possible that a biosimilar applicant could obtain approval for one or more of the indications approved for the innovator product by extrapolating clinical data from one indication to support approval for other indications. In the European Union, the European Commission has similarly granted marketing authorizations for biosimilars once the marketing exclusivity rights for the innovator product have expired. The EMA has published general and product class-specific guidelines to assist biosimilar developers in preparing marketing authorization applications for biosimilars. An applicant for a marketing authorization for a biosimilar in the European Union is required to demonstrate through comparability studies with the ‘reference’ biological medicine that: (i) their biological medicine is highly similar to the reference medicine, notwithstanding natural variability inherent to all biological medicines; and (ii) there are no clinically meaningful differences between the biosimilar and the reference medicine in terms of safety, quality and efficacy. Both the United States and the EU provide pathways for biologics competitors to seek approval for biosimilar products at the end of the relevant exclusivity period or, in some circumstances, before such period expires (for example, if a biosimilar applicant obtains approval for one or more of the indications approved for the innovator product by extrapolating clinical data from one indication to support approval for other indications). We are aware of many pharmaceutical and biotechnology and other companies that are actively engaged in research and development of biosimilars or interchangeable products.
Federal, state and foreign healthcare laws, including anti-kickback, fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws
Manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities following product approval are also subject to regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in addition to the FDA, including, in the United States, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, the United States Department of Justice, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and state and local governments.
Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payors for our products, we are subject to broadly applicable healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by federal and state governments. Additionally, healthcare providers and third-party payors play a primary role in the recommendation of drugs and other medical items and services. Arrangements with providers, consultants, third-party payors and customers are subject to broadly applicable fraud and abuse, anti-kickback, false claims laws, reporting of payments to physicians and teaching hospitals and patient privacy laws and regulations and other healthcare laws.
Healthcare fraud and abuse and health information privacy and security laws potentially applicable to our operations include:
•
the federal Anti-Kickback Law, which makes it illegal for any person to knowingly and willfully solicit, receive, offer or pay any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or certain rebates), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, or in return for, that is intended to induce or reward referrals, including the purchase, recommendation, order or prescription of a particular drug, for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. A person or entity need not have actual knowledge of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute or specific intent to violate it in order to have committed a violation. Violations are subject to civil and criminal fines and penalties for each violation, plus imprisonment and exclusion from government healthcare programs. In addition, the government may assert that a claim that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the civil False Claims Act, or FCA. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution. This law applies to our marketing practices, educational programs, pricing policies and relationships with healthcare providers, by prohibiting, among other things, soliciting, receiving, offering or providing remuneration intended to induce the purchase or recommendation of an item or service reimbursable under a federal healthcare program, such as the Medicare or Medicaid programs;
•
federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the FCA, which prohibit individuals or entities from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment or approval that are false, fictitious or fraudulent; knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false statement or record material to a false or fraudulent claim or obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government; or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Manufacturers can be held liable under the FCA even when they do not submit claims directly to government payors if they are deemed to “cause” the submission of false or fraudulent claims. The government may deem manufacturers to have “caused” the submission of false or fraudulent claims by, for example, providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label.
Companies that submit claims directly to payors may also be liable under the FCA for the direct submission of such claims. In addition, our future activities relating to the reporting of wholesaler or estimated retail prices for our products, the reporting of prices used to calculate Medicaid rebate information
and other information affecting federal, state, and third-party reimbursement for our products, and the sale and marketing of our products, are subject to scrutiny under this law. The FCA also permits a private individual acting as a “whistleblower” to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery. When an entity is determined to have violated the FCA, the government may impose civil fines and penalties for each false claim, plus treble damages, and exclude the entity from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs;
•
the federal civil monetary penalties laws, which impose civil fines for, among other things, the offering or transfer of remuneration to a Medicare or state healthcare program beneficiary if the person knows or should know it is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider, practitioner, or supplier of services reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program, unless an exception applies;
•
the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and its implementing regulations, which created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payor (e.g., public or private) and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity can be found guilty of violating HIPAA without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it;
•
HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, including the Final Omnibus Rule published in January 2013, which impose requirements on certain covered healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their respective business associates that perform services for them that involve the use, or disclosure of, individually identifiable health information, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. HITECH also created new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys’ fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. In addition, there may be additional federal, state and non-U.S.
laws which govern the privacy and security of health and other personal information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts;
•
federal “sunshine” requirements imposed by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, or collectively, the ACA, on drug, device, biological and medical supply manufacturers when payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to HHS under the Open Payments Program, information regarding any payment or other “transfer of value” made or distributed to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests that are not timely, accurately, and completely reported in an annual submission. Effective January 1, 2022, these reporting obligations will extend to include transfers of value made to certain non-physician
providers such as physician assistants and nurse practitioners;
•
federal price reporting laws, which require manufacturers to calculate and report complex pricing metrics to government programs, where such reported prices may be used in the calculation of reimbursement and/or discounts on approved products;
•
the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, prohibits any United States individual or business from paying, offering, or authorizing payment or offering of anything of value, directly or indirectly, to any foreign official, political party, or candidate for the purpose of influencing any act or decision of the foreign entity in order to assist the individual or business in obtaining or retaining business. The FCPA also obligates companies whose securities are listed in the United States to comply with accounting provisions requiring the company to maintain books and records that accurately and fairly reflect all transactions of the corporation, including international subsidiaries, and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls for international operations. Activities that violate the FCPA, even if they occur wholly outside the United States, can result in criminal and civil fines, imprisonment, disgorgement, oversight, and debarment from government contracts; and
•
analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial insurers or patients; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state and local laws that require the licensure of sales representatives; state laws that require drug manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and pricing information; data privacy and security laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions that may be more stringent than those in the United States (such as the European Union, which adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which became effective in May 2018); state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect; and state laws related to insurance fraud in the case of claims involving private insurers.
Additionally, pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and more recent requirements in the ACA. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. The handling of any controlled substances must comply with the U.S. Controlled Substances Act and Controlled Substances Import and Export Act. Products must meet applicable child-resistant packaging requirements under the U.S. Poison Prevention Packaging Act. Manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities are also potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws.
Changes in regulations, statutes or the interpretation of existing regulations could impact our business in the future by requiring, for example: (i) changes to our manufacturing arrangements; (ii) additions or modifications to product labeling; (iii) the voluntary recall or discontinuation of our products; or (iv) additional record-keeping requirements. If any such changes were to be imposed, they could adversely affect the operation of our business.
Regulations governing data collection and the use, processing and cross-border transfer of personal information
We have subsidiaries, employees and operations in Europe, which subject us to additional privacy restrictions, including in relation to employee information. We have also conducted, and expect to continue to conduct, clinical trials or continue to enroll subjects in our ongoing or future clinical trials in certain jurisdictions in which we may be subject to additional privacy restrictions. The collection, use, storage, disclosure, transfer, or other processing of personal data regarding individuals in the EU, including personal health data, is subject to the
GDPR, which became effective in May 2018. The GDPR is wide-ranging in scope and imposes numerous requirements on companies that process personal data, including requirements relating to processing health and other sensitive data, obtaining consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, providing information to individuals regarding data processing activities, implementing safeguards to protect the security and confidentiality of personal data, providing notification of data breaches, and taking certain measures when engaging third-party processors. The GDPR also imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data to countries outside the EU, including the United States, and permits data protection authorities to impose large penalties for violations of the GDPR, including potential fines of up to €20 million or 4% of annual global revenues, whichever is greater. The GDPR also confers a private right of action on data subjects and consumer associations to lodge complaints with supervisory authorities, seek judicial remedies, and obtain compensation for damages resulting from violations of the GDPR. In addition, the GDPR includes restrictions on cross-border data transfers. The GDPR has increased our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process where such processing is subject to the GDPR, and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms to ensure compliance with the GDPR, including as implemented by individual countries. Compliance with the GDPR will continue to be a rigorous and time-intensive process that may increase our cost of doing business or require us to change our business practices, and despite those efforts, there is a risk that we may be subject to fines and penalties, litigation, and reputational harm in connection with our European activities. Further, the United Kingdom’s exit from the EU, often referred to as Brexit, has created uncertainty with regard to data protection regulation in the United Kingdom. In particular, it is unclear how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated.
California recently enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, which creates new individual privacy rights for California consumers (as defined in the law) and places increased privacy and security obligations on entities handling personal data of consumers or households. Effective as of January 2020, the CCPA requires covered companies to provide certain disclosures to consumers about its data collection, use and sharing practices, and to provide affected California residents with ways to opt out of certain sales or transfers of personal information, and also regulates employee information. Further, a new California privacy law, the California Privacy Rights Act, or CPRA, was passed by California voters in November 2020. The CPRA will create additional obligations with respect to processing and storing personal information that are scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2023 (with certain provisions having retroactive effect to January 1, 2022). While there is currently an exception in the CCPA and CPRA for protected health information that is subject to HIPAA, the CCPA and CPRA do and will impact our business activities. Other U.S. states also are considering omnibus privacy legislation and industry organizations regularly adopt and advocate for new standards in these areas.
European Union drug development, Orphan Drug and PRIME designations
In the EU, our product candidates may also be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. As in the United States, medicinal products can only be marketed if a marketing authorization from the competent regulatory authorities has been obtained.
Similar to the United States, the various phases of nonclinical and clinical research in the EU are subject to significant regulatory controls. Although the EU Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC, or Directive, has sought to harmonize the EU clinical trials regulatory framework, setting out common rules for the control and authorization of clinical trials in the EU, the EU Member States have transposed and applied the provisions of the Directive differently. This has led to significant variations in the Member State regimes. Under the current regime, before a clinical trial can be initiated it must be approved in each of the EU countries where the trial is to be conducted by two distinct bodies: the National Competent Authority, or NCA, and one or more Ethics Committees, or ECs. Under the current regime all suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions to the investigated drug that occur during the clinical trial have to be reported to the NCA and ECs of the Member State where they occurred.
In April 2014, the EU adopted a new Clinical Trials Regulation (EU) No 536/2014, or Regulation. which is set to replace the current Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC. It will overhaul the current system of approvals for clinical trials in the EU. Specifically, the new Regulation, which will be directly applicable in all Member States, aims at simplifying and streamlining the approval of clinical trials in the EU. For instance, the new Regulation provides for a streamlined application procedure via a single entry point and strictly defined deadlines for the assessment of clinical trial applications. It is expected that the new Regulation will apply following confirmation of full functionality of the Clinical Trials Information System, the centralized EU portal and database for clinical trials foreseen by the regulation, through an independent audit, which is currently anticipated to occur in December 2021.
In November 2016, the EC, acting on a positive recommendation from the Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, or COMP, of the EMA, designated Oxbryta as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of SCD. Orphan drug status in the EU has similar, but not identical, requirements and benefits to US orphan drug status, including 10 years of marketing exclusivity from the approval of the marketing authorization, designated product-specific consultation by the EMA, and certain reductions or exemptions in regulatory fees.
In June 2017, the EMA granted PRIME designation for Oxbryta for the treatment of SCD. The PRIME program is a new regulatory mechanism that provides for early and proactive EMA support to medicine developers to help patients benefit as early as possible from innovative new products that have demonstrated the potential to significantly address an unmet medical need, where there is no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment in the EU or, if there is, the new medicine will bring a major therapeutic advantage. It is intended to build upon the scientific advice scheme and accelerated assessment procedure offered by EMA. The scheme is voluntary, and eligibility criteria must be met for a medicine to qualify for PRIME. The PRIME scheme is open to medicines under development and for which the applicant intends to make an initial marketing authorization application through the Centralized Procedure. If a medicine is selected for the PRIME scheme, the EMA:
•
appoints a rapporteur from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use, or CHMP, or from the Committee for Advanced Therapies, or CAT, to provide continuous support and to build up knowledge of the medicine in advance of the filing of a marketing authorization application;
•
issues guidance on the applicant’s overall development plan and regulatory strategy;
•
organizes a kick-off
meeting with the rapporteur and experts from relevant EMA committees and working groups;
•
provides a dedicated EMA contact person; and
•
provides scientific advice at key development milestones, involving additional stakeholders, such as health technology assessment bodies and patients, as needed.
Medicines that are selected for the PRIME scheme are also expected to benefit from the EMA’s accelerated assessment procedure at the time of application for a marketing authorization. Where, during the course of development, a medicine no longer meets the eligibility criteria, support under the PRIME scheme may be withdrawn.
European Union drug review and approval
In the European Economic Area, or EEA, which is currently comprised of the Member States of the EU plus Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein, medicinal products can only be commercialized after obtaining a Marketing Authorization, or MA. There are two types of marketing authorizations:
The centralized MA is issued by the EC through the Centralized Procedure, based on the opinion of the CHMP, and is valid throughout the entire territory of the EEA. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for certain types of products, such as biotechnology medicinal products, orphan medicinal products, advanced-
therapy medicines (gene-therapy, somatic cell-therapy or tissue-engineered medicines), and medicinal products containing a new active substance indicated for the treatment of HIV, AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, auto-immune and other immune dysfunctions, and viral diseases. This mandatory Centralized Procedure applies in the case of Oxbryta for SCD, in light of the 2016 designation of Oxbryta as an orphan medicinal product for the treatment of SCD.
The Centralized Procedure is optional for products containing a new active substance not yet authorized in the EEA, or for products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or which are in the interest of public health in the EU.
Under the Centralized Procedure the maximum timeframe for the evaluation of an MAA by the EMA is generally 210 days, when additional written or oral information is to be provided by the applicant in response to questions asked by the CHMP. Clock stops may extend the timeframe of evaluation of a MAA considerably beyond 210 days. Where the CHMP gives a positive opinion, it provides the opinion together with supporting documentation to the EC, who make the final decision to grant a marketing authorization, which is issued within 67 days of receipt of the EMA’s recommendation. Accelerated assessment might be granted by the CHMP in exceptional cases, when a medicinal product is expected to be of major public health interest, particularly from the point of view of therapeutic innovation. The timeframe for the evaluation of a MAA under the accelerated assessment procedure is generally 150 days, but it is possible that the CHMP may revert to the standard time limit for the Centralized Procedure if it determines that the application is no longer appropriate to conduct an accelerated assessment.
National MAs, which are issued by the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA and only cover their respective territory, are available for products not falling within the mandatory scope of the Centralized Procedure. Where a product has already been authorized for marketing in a Member State of the EEA, this National MA can be recognized in other Member States through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. If the product has not received a National MA in any Member State at the time of application, it can be approved simultaneously in various Member States through the Decentralized Procedure. Under the Decentralized Procedure an identical dossier is submitted to the competent authorities of each of the Member States in which an MA is sought, one of which is selected by the applicant as the Reference Member State, or RMS. The competent authority of the RMS prepares a draft assessment report, a draft summary of the product characteristics, or SmPC, and a draft of the labeling and package leaflet, which are sent to the other Member States (referred to as the Concerned Member States) for their approval. If the Concerned Member States raise no objections, based on a potential serious risk to public health, to the assessment, SmPC, labeling, or packaging proposed by the RMS, the product is subsequently granted a National MA in all the relevant Member States (i.e., in the RMS and the Concerned Member States).
Under the above-described procedures, before granting an MA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA make an assessment of the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy.
Now that the UK (which includes Great Britain and Northern Ireland) has left the EU, Great Britain will no longer be covered by centralized MAs (while under the Northern Irish Protocol, centralized MAs will continue to be recognized in Northern Ireland). All medicinal products with a current centralized MA were automatically converted to Great Britain MAs on January 1, 2021. For a period of two years from January 1, 2021, the MHRA may rely on a decision taken by the EC on the approval of a new MAA in the Centralized Procedure to more quickly grant a new Great Britain MA. A separate application will, however, still be required. The MHRA also has the power to have regard to MAs approved in EEA Member States through Decentralized or Mutual Recognition Procedures with a view to more quickly granting an MA in the UK or Great Britain.
European Union market and data exclusivity
In the EEA, innovative medicinal products, qualify for eight years of data exclusivity upon marketing authorization and an additional two years of market exclusivity. The data exclusivity, if granted, prevents generic or biosimilar applicants from referencing the innovator’s pre-clinical
or clinical trial data contained in the dossier of the reference product when applying for a generic or biosimilar MA in the EEA. During the additional two-year
period of market exclusivity, a generic or biosimilar marketing authorization application can be submitted, and the innovator’s data may be referenced, but no generic or biosimilar product can be marketed until the expiration of the market exclusivity. The overall ten-year
period will be extended to a maximum of 11 years if, during the first eight years of those ten years, the marketing authorization holder obtains an authorization for one or more new therapeutic indications which, during the scientific evaluation prior to their authorization, are determined to bring a significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing therapies. However, even if an innovative medicinal product gains the prescribed period of data exclusivity, another company may market another version of the product if such company obtained an MA based on a MAA with a complete independent data package of pharmaceutical tests, preclinical tests and clinical trials.
European Union orphan designation and exclusivity
In the EEA, the EC, after reviewing the opinion of the EMA’s Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products, grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that are intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions and either (i) such condition affects not more than 5 in 10,000 persons in the EEA, or (ii) it is unlikely that the development of the medicine would generate sufficient return to justify the necessary investment in its development. In either case, the applicant must also demonstrate that no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention, or treatment for the condition has been authorized (or, if a method exists, the product would be a significant benefit to those affected compared to the product available).
In the EEA, orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and ten years of market exclusivity is granted following marketing authorization approval. During this market exclusivity period, neither the EMA nor the EC nor any of the competent authorities in the EEA Members States can accept an application or grant a marketing authorization for a “similar medicinal product.” A “similar medicinal product” is defined as a medicinal product containing a similar active substance or substances as contained in an authorized orphan medicinal product, and which is intended for the same therapeutic indication. This period may be reduced to six years if the orphan drug designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Market exclusivity may also be revoked in very select cases, such as if (i) it is established that a similar medicinal product is safer, more effective or otherwise clinically superior to the authorized product; (ii) the marketing authorization holder consents to such revocation; or (iii) the marketing authorization holder cannot supply enough orphan medicinal product. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for marketing approval. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process. In November 2016, we were granted orphan drug designation in the EU for Oxbryta for the potential treatment of SCD.
From January 1, 2021, a separate process for orphan drug designation applies in Great Britain. There is no pre-marketing
authorization orphan designation (as there is in the EEA) and the application for orphan designation will be reviewed by the MHRA at the time of the marketing authorization application. The criteria are the same as in the EEA, except that they apply to Great Britain only (i.e., there must be no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment of the condition concerned in Great Britain).
Brexit and the Regulatory Framework in the UK
In June 2016, the electorate in the UK voted in favor of leaving the EU (commonly referred to as Brexit). Thereafter, in March 2017, the country formally notified the EU of its intention to withdraw pursuant to Article 50 of the Lisbon Treaty. The UK formally left the EU at the end of January 2020, with a transition period from February through December 2020 during which EU pharmaceutical law remained applicable to the UK. It remains to be seen how Brexit will impact regulatory requirements for medicinal products and devices in the UK in the long-term. The MHRA has recently published detailed guidance for industry and organizations to follow now the transition period is over, which will be updated as the UK’s regulatory position on medicinal products evolves over time.
Rest of the world regulation
For other countries outside of the EU and the United States, such as countries in the GCC region, Latin America, Eastern Europe, or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. Additionally, the clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with GCP requirements and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
If we or our partners fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.
Reimbursement
Sales of our products will depend, in part, on the extent to which our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations, as well as the level of reimbursement such third-party payors provide for our products. Patients and providers are unlikely to use our products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover a significant portion of the cost of our products. In the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for drug products exists, and one payor’s determination to provide coverage and adequate reimbursement for a product does not assure that other payors will make a similar determination. Accordingly, decisions regarding the extent of coverage and amount of reimbursement to be provided for any of our products will be made on a payor-by-payor
basis. Many private payors, however, use coverage decisions and payment amounts determined by CMS as guidelines in setting their coverage and reimbursement policies. The coverage determination process is often time-consuming and costly and is likely to require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our product candidates to each payor individually, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained.
The United States government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid health care costs, including price-controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of generic products for branded prescription drugs. For example, the ACA contains provisions that may reduce the profitability of drug products through increased rebates for drugs reimbursed by Medicaid programs, extension of Medicaid rebates to Medicaid managed care plans, and mandatory discounts for certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries and annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies’ share of sales to federal health care programs. Adoption of general controls and measures, coupled with the tightening of restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit payments for pharmaceutical drugs.
The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the Secretary of HHS as a condition for states to receive federal matching funds for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs furnished to Medicaid patients. Effective in 2010, the ACA made several
changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, including increasing pharmaceutical manufacturers’ rebate liability by raising the minimum basic Medicaid rebate on most branded prescription drugs from 15.1% of average manufacturer price, or AMP, to 23.1% of AMP, and adding a new rebate calculation for “line extensions” (i.e., new formulations, such as extended release formulations) of solid oral dosage forms of branded products, creating a new methodology by which rebates are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, as well as potentially impacting their rebate liability by modifying the statutory definition of AMP. The ACA also expanded the universe of Medicaid utilization subject to drug rebates by requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay rebates on Medicaid managed care utilization as of 2010 and by expanding the population potentially eligible for Medicaid drug benefits (phased-in
by 2014). Pricing and rebate programs must also comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990.
The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, established the Medicare Part D program to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Unlike Medicare Parts A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. While all Medicare drug plans must give at least a standard level of coverage set by Medicare, Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for drugs for which we obtain marketing approval. Any negotiated prices for any of our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan will likely be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental
payors.
For a drug product to receive federal reimbursement under the Medicaid or Medicare Part B programs or to be sold directly to U.S. government agencies, the manufacturer must extend discounts to entities eligible to participate in the 340B drug pricing program. The required 340B discount on a given product is calculated based on the AMP and Medicaid rebate amounts reported by the manufacturer. As of 2010, the ACA expanded the types of entities eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing, although under the current state of the law these newly eligible entities (with the exception of children’s hospitals) will not be eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing on orphan drugs. As 340B drug pricing is determined based on AMP and Medicaid rebate data, the revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition described above could cause the required 340B discount to increase.
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 provides funding for the federal government to compare the effectiveness of different treatments for the same illness. The plan for the research was published in 2012 by HHS, the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and the National Institutes for Health, and periodic reports on the status of the research and related expenditures are made to Congress. Although the results of the comparative effectiveness studies are not intended to mandate coverage policies for public or private payors, it is not clear what effect, if any, the research will have on the sales of Oxbryta or our product candidates, if any such drug or the condition that they are intended to treat are the subject of such research. It is also possible that comparative effectiveness research demonstrating benefits in a competitor’s drug could adversely affect the sales of Oxbryta or our product candidates. If third-party payors do not consider our drugs to be cost-effective compared to other available therapies, they may not cover our drugs after approval as a benefit under their plans or, if they do, the level of payment or utilization may not be sufficient to allow us to sell our drugs on a profitable basis.
In recent years, additional laws have resulted in direct or indirect reimbursement reductions for certain Medicare providers, including:
•
The Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. These changes included aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments, are suspended until March 31, 2021, and are currently scheduled to remain in effect through 2030 unless additional Congressional action is taken.
•
The American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012, among other things, reduced Medicare payments to several providers, and increased the statute of limitations period for the government to recover overpayments to providers from three to five years.
These laws, and future state and federal healthcare reform measures may be adopted in the future, any of which may result in additional reductions in Medicare and other healthcare funding and otherwise affect the prices we may obtain for any product candidates for which we may obtain regulatory approval or the frequency with which any such product candidate is prescribed or used.
As noted above, the marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide adequate coverage and reimbursement. We expect that an increasing emphasis on cost containment measures in the United States will continue to increase the pressure on pharmaceutical pricing. Coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Even if favorable coverage and reimbursement status is attained for one or more products for which we receive regulatory approval, less favorable coverage policies and reimbursement rates may be implemented in the future.
In many foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. For example, the EU provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products, for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. Historically, products launched in the EU do not follow price structures of the United States and generally prices tend to be significantly lower. It can also take a significant period of time after any regulatory approval to obtain various pricing and reimbursement approvals in various member states. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products, if approved.
U.S. Healthcare Reform and regulatory changes
The United States and many foreign jurisdictions have enacted or proposed legislative and regulatory changes affecting the healthcare system that could affect our ability to profitably sell our products. In the United States, there have been and continue to be laws enacted by the federal government, state governments, regulators and third-party payers to control healthcare costs, and generally, to reform the healthcare system in the United States. For example, the ACA was passed in March 2010 and has substantially changed the way healthcare is delivered and financed by both governmental and private insurers. The ACA expanded coverage for the uninsured while at the same time containing overall healthcare costs. With regard to pharmaceutical products, the ACA, among other things, addressed a new methodology by which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, increased the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program and
extended the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, established annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs, and a Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% point-of-sale
discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs to be covered under Medicare Part D. The required discount was increased to 70% on January 1, 2019 pursuant to subsequent legislation.
Some of the provisions of the ACA have yet to be fully implemented, while certain provisions have been subject to judicial and Congressional challenges. The full impact of the ACA, any law repealing, replacing, or modifying elements of it, and the political uncertainty surrounding its repeal, replacement, or modification on our business remains unclear. We expect that additional federal healthcare reform measures may be adopted in the future, any of which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare drugs and services, and in turn could significantly reduce the projected value of certain development projects and reduce our profitability and may increase our regulatory burdens and operating costs.
There has been increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the United States with respect to drug pricing practices, including for specialty drugs. For example, there have been several recent federal Congressional inquiries and proposed federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs. At the federal level, the Trump administration’s budget proposal for fiscal year 2021 includes a $135 billion allowance to support legislative proposals seeking to reduce drug prices, increase competition, lower out-of-pocket
drug costs for patients, and increase patient access to lower-cost generic and biosimilar drugs. Additionally, the Trump administration released a “Blueprint” to lower drug prices and reduce out of pocket costs of drugs that contains additional proposals to increase manufacturer competition, increase the negotiating power of certain federal healthcare programs, incentivize manufacturers to lower the list price of their products and reduce the out-of-pocket
costs of drug products paid by consumers. HHS has already started the process of soliciting feedback on some of these measures and, at the same time, is immediately implementing others under its existing authority. For example, in May 2019, CMS issued a final rule to allow Medicare Advantage Plans the option of using step therapy, a type of prior authorization, for Part B drugs beginning in January 2020, codifying an earlier CMS policy change.
During 2020, President Trump announced several executive orders related to prescription drug pricing that seek to implement several of the administration’s proposals. Further, in November 2020, CMS issued an Interim Final Rule implementing the Most Favored Nation, or MFN, Model under which Medicare Part B reimbursement rates will be calculated for certain drugs and biologics based on the lowest price drug manufacturers receive in Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development countries with a similar gross domestic product per capita. The MFN Model regulations mandate participation by identified Part B providers and will apply in all U.S. states and territories for a seven-year period from 2021 through 2027. However, the Interim Final Rule was not finalized and has been challenged in court and enjoined from implementation. Additionally, in November 2020, HHS finalized a regulation removing safe harbor protection for price reductions from pharmaceutical manufacturers to plan sponsors under Part D, either directly or through pharmacy benefit managers, unless the price reduction is required by law. The rule also created a new safe harbor for price reductions reflected at the point-of-sale,
as well as a safe harbor for certain fixed fee arrangements between pharmacy benefit managers and manufacturers. Although a number of these, and other proposed measures may require authorization through additional legislation to become effective, and the Biden administration may reverse or otherwise change these measures, Congress has indicated that it will continue to seek new legislative measures to control drug costs. At the state level, legislatures have increasingly passed legislation and implemented regulations designed to control pharmaceutical product pricing, including price or patient reimbursement constraints, discounts, restrictions on certain product access and marketing cost disclosure and transparency measures, and, in some cases, designed to encourage importation from other countries and bulk purchasing.
Finally, in May 2018, the Right to Try Act was signed into law. The law, among other things, provides a federal framework for certain patients to access certain investigational new drug products that have completed a Phase 1 clinical trial and that are undergoing investigation for FDA approval. Under certain circumstances, eligible patients can seek treatment without enrolling in clinical trials and without obtaining FDA permission under the FDA expanded access program. There is no obligation for a pharmaceutical manufacturer to make its drug products available to eligible patients as a result of the Right to Try Act.
Research and Development
Research and development expenses were $155.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, $174.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 and $131.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Financial Information about Segments
We operate in a single accounting segment-dedicated to discovering, developing and commercializing novel therapeutics to treat grievous blood-based disorders. Refer to Note 1, “Organization and Basis of Presentation” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report.
Corporate Information
We were incorporated in Delaware in February 2011 and commenced operations in May 2012. Our principal executive offices are located at 181 Oyster Point Blvd., South San Francisco, California 94080. Our telephone number is (650) 741-7700
and our e-mail
address is investor@gbt.com. Our Internet website address is www.gbt.com. No portion of our website is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
You are advised to read this Annual Report on Form 10-K
in conjunction with other reports and documents that we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. In particular, please read our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q
and any Current Reports on Form 8-K
that we may file from time to time. You may obtain copies of these reports directly from us or from the SEC. In addition, the SEC maintains information for electronic filers (including Global Blood Therapeutics, Inc.) at its website at www.sec.gov. We make our periodic and current reports available on our internet website, free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC.
Item 1A.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 6bf120ae520b7bb17b874b6334230be1
- Approx. Length: 34879 characters