# Context

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Rayonier Inc.
To Our Shareholders:
The management of Rayonier Inc. and its subsidiaries is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Our system of internal controls over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company’s management and Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Rayonier Inc.’s management, under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020. In making this assessment, we used the framework included in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on our evaluation under the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2020.
Ernst & Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company’s consolidated financial statements, has issued an audit report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020. The report on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, is on page 63.
MANAGEMENT’S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Rayonier, L.P.
To Our Unitholders:
The management of Rayonier, L.P. and its subsidiaries is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Our system of internal controls over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Operating Partnership’s management and the Rayonier Inc. Board of Directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Rayonier, L.P.’s management, under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020. In making this assessment, we used the framework included in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on our evaluation under the criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2020.
RAYONIER, L.P.
By:RAYONIER, INC., its sole general partner
By:/s/ DAVID L. NUNES
David L. Nunes
President and Chief Executive Officer
(Principal Executive Officer)
February 22, 2021
By:/s/ MARK MCHUGH
Mark McHugh
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
(Principal Financial Officer)
February 22, 2021
By:/s/ APRIL TICE
April Tice
Vice President, Financial Services and Corporate Controller
(Principal Accounting Officer)
February 22, 2021
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Rayonier Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
We have audited Rayonier Inc. and subsidiaries’ internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Rayonier Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on the COSO criteria.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes and schedule and our report dated February 22, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Jacksonville, Florida
February 22, 2021
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Rayonier Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Rayonier Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework), and our report dated February 22, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Depletion of Timber
Description of the Matter
For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized $195 million in depletion expense and the Timber and Timberlands balance, net of depletion and amortization, was $3,262 million at December 31, 2020. As described in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company establishes an annual depletion rate for each particular region. Depletion rates are determined by region by dividing merchantable inventory cost by standing merchantable inventory volume, which is estimated annually. The Company charges accumulated costs attributed to merchantable timber to depletion expense (cost of sales) at the time the timber is harvested or when the underlying timberland is sold.
Auditing management’s annual depletion rate was complex and subjective due to the estimation uncertainty in determining the standing merchantable inventory volume utilized in the calculation of the depletion rate for each region. In particular, estimating the standing merchantable inventory volume involves statistical sampling and growth modeling using inputs such as growth estimates, harvest information and environmental and operational restrictions.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Company’s process for establishing the annual depletion rate for each geographic region. For example, we tested controls over management’s review of the standing merchantable inventory volume that was determined for each geographic region.
To test the annual depletion rates (including standing merchantable inventory volume), our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating the methodology used and testing the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data used by the Company. We inspected satellite images to test timber existence and assessed the timberland for features that would impact the Company’s ability to harvest its timber. In addition, we evaluated current year changes to harvestability, analyzed the change in depletion as a percentage of sales, utilized published industry growth rates to assess the increase in timber volume growth and compared actual volume harvested to the volume estimated by the Company.
Business Combination: Valuation of Core Timber and Timberlands
Description of the Matter
On May 8, 2020, the Company completed its acquisition of Pope Resources for net consideration of $538 million, as disclosed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination.
Auditing the Company's accounting for its acquisition of Pope Resources was complex due to the significant estimation required by management to determine the fair value of the Core Timber and Timberlands. The significant estimation was primarily due to the sensitivity of the respective fair values to the significant underlying assumptions, including the discount rate and harvest volumes that are used to estimate forecasted revenue. These significant assumptions are forward looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the Company's controls over the valuation of the acquired Core Timber and Timberlands. For example, we tested controls over management’s review of the valuation models and the significant assumptions used in the valuation models.
To test the fair value of the Core Timber and Timberlands we performed audit procedures that included, among others, evaluating the Company's selection of the valuation methodologies, evaluating the methods and significant assumptions used by the Company, and evaluating the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data supporting the significant assumptions and estimates. We involved our valuation specialists to assist with our evaluation of the methodologies used by the Company and significant assumptions included in valuation. We compared the significant assumptions to market and economic trends, to the historical results of the acquired business and compared the overall fair value of the Core Timber and Timberlands to other third-party property appraisals that were performed close to the date of the acquisition.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2012.
Jacksonville, Florida
February 22, 2021
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Rayonier Inc., the general partner of Rayonier, L.P.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Rayonier, L.P. and subsidiaries (the Operating Partnership) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, capital and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes and financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Operating Partnership at December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Operating Partnership’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Operating Partnership’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Operating Partnership in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. The Operating Partnership is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. As part of our audits we are required to obtain an understanding of internal control over financial reporting but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Operating Partnership’s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion.
Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Depletion of Timber
Description of the Matter
For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Operating Partnership recognized $195 million in depletion expense and the Timber and Timberlands balance, net of depletion and amortization, was $3,262 million at December 31, 2020. As described in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Operating Partnership establishes an annual depletion rate for each particular region. Depletion rates are determined by region by dividing merchantable inventory cost by standing merchantable inventory volume, which is estimated annually. The Operating Partnership charges accumulated costs attributed to merchantable timber to depletion expense (cost of sales) at the time the timber is harvested or when the underlying timberland is sold.
Auditing management’s annual depletion rate was complex and subjective due to the estimation uncertainty in determining the standing merchantable inventory volume utilized in the calculation of the depletion rate for each region. In particular, estimating the standing merchantable inventory volume involves statistical sampling and growth modeling using inputs such as growth estimates, harvest information and environmental and operational restrictions.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls over the Operating Partnership’s process for establishing the annual depletion rate for each geographic region. For example, we tested controls over management’s review of the standing merchantable inventory volume that was determined for each geographic region.
To test the annual depletion rates (including standing merchantable inventory volume), our audit procedures included, among others, evaluating the methodology used and testing the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data used by the Operating Partnership. We inspected satellite images to test timber existence and assessed the timberland for features that would impact the Operating Partnership’s ability to harvest its timber. In addition, we evaluated current year changes to harvestability, analyzed the change in depletion as a percentage of sales, utilized published industry growth rates to assess the increase in timber volume growth and compared actual volume harvested to the volume estimated by the Operating Partnership.
Business Combination: Valuation of Core Timber and Timberlands
Description of the Matter
On May 8, 2020, the Operating Partnership completed its acquisition of Pope Resources for net consideration of $538 million, as disclosed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. The transaction was accounted for as a business combination.
Auditing the Operating Partnership’s accounting for its acquisition of Pope Resources was complex due to the significant estimation required by management to determine the fair value of the Core Timber and Timberlands. The significant estimation was primarily due to the sensitivity of the respective fair values to the significant underlying assumptions, including the discount rate and harvest volumes that are used to estimate forecasted revenue. These significant assumptions are forward looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of the Operating Partnership's controls over the valuation of the acquired Core Timber and Timberlands. For example, we tested controls over management’s review of the valuation models and the significant assumptions used in the valuation models.
To test the fair value of the Core Timber and Timberlands we performed audit procedures that included, among others, evaluating the Operating Partnership's selection of the valuation methodologies, evaluating the methods and significant assumptions used by the Operating Partnership, and evaluating the completeness and accuracy of the underlying data supporting the significant assumptions and estimates. We involved our valuation specialists to assist with our evaluation of the methodologies used by the Operating Partnership and significant assumptions included in valuation. We compared the significant assumptions to market and economic trends, to the historical results of the acquired business and compared the overall fair value of the Core Timber and Timberlands to other third-party property appraisals that were performed close to the date of the acquisition.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Operating Partnership’s auditor since 2019.
Jacksonville, Florida
February 22, 2021
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31,
(Thousands of dollars, except per share data)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
As of December 31,
(Thousands of dollars, except share data)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
(Thousands of dollars, except share data)
(a)For information regarding distributions to noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership, see the Rayonier Inc. Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
For the Years Ended December 31,
(Thousands of dollars)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
For the Years Ended December 31,
(Thousands of dollars)
(a)Interest paid is presented net of patronage payments received of $4.7 million, $4.0 million and $4.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For additional information on patronage payments, see Note 8 - Debt.
(b)Represents a capital distribution made by the New Zealand subsidiary in order to redeem certain equity interests, resulting in the recording of a noncontrolling interest share redemption of $5.1 million and a loan payable by the New Zealand subsidiary in the amount of $23.3 million. See Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests and Note 8 - Debt for further information.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the Years Ended December 31,
(Dollars in thousands, except per unit amounts)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
As of December 31,
(Dollars in thousands)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN CAPITAL
(Dollars in thousands, except share data)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
As of December 31,
(Dollars in thousands)
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
(a)Interest paid is presented net of patronage payments received of $4.7 million, $4.0 million and $4.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. For additional information on patronage payments, see Note 8 - Debt.
(b)Represents a capital distribution made by the New Zealand subsidiary in order to redeem certain equity interests, resulting in the recording of a noncontrolling interest share redemption of $5.1 million and a loan payable by the New Zealand subsidiary in the amount of $23.3 million. See Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests and Note 8 - Debt for further information.
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION
Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). Rayonier Inc.'s Consolidated Financial Statements include the Operating Partnership, wholly-owned subsidiaries and entities in which the Company has a controlling interest. Rayonier, L.P.'s Consolidated Financial Statements include wholly-owned subsidiaries and entities in which the Operating Partnership has a controlling interest. For additional information regarding our consolidated entities with a noncontrolling interest component, see Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests for additional information. All intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated.
On May 7, 2020, Rayonier Inc. contributed its 100% ownership interest in Rayonier Operating Company LLC (the “Contribution”) to Rayonier, L.P. As a result of the Contribution, which constituted the transfer of all or substantially all of Rayonier’s assets under the terms of the Indenture, dated March 5, 2012 (as supplemented and amended from time to time, the “Indenture”), between Rayonier, as issuer, the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee, Rayonier, L.P. expressly assumed all the obligations of Rayonier under the Indenture, including obligations with respect to the outstanding $325 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.750% Senior Notes due 2022 (the “2022 Notes”) issued thereunder.
On May 7, 2020, Rayonier, Rayonier, L.P., the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and the Trustee entered into the Third Supplemental Indenture, pursuant to which (1) Rayonier, L.P. succeeded to and became substituted for the Company under the Indenture and 2022 Notes and expressly assumed all the obligations of the Company under the Indenture, including obligations with respect to the 2022 Notes, and (2) Rayonier agreed to irrevocably, fully and unconditionally guarantee, jointly and severally, the obligations of Rayonier, L.P. under Indenture, including the 2022 Notes.
On May 8, 2020, Rayonier, L.P. acquired Pope Resources and became the general partner of Pope Resources. The acquisition occurred pursuant to a series of mergers (the “Mergers”) provided for in Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 14, 2020, as amended by Amendment No. 1, dated as of April 1, 2020 (as amended, the “Merger Agreement”), by and among Rayonier Inc., Rayonier, L.P., Rayonier Operating Company LLC, Rayonier Operating Company Holdings, LLC, Pacific GP Merger Sub I, LLC, Pacific GP Merger Sub II, LLC, Pacific LP Merger Sub III, LLC, Pope Resources, Pope EGP, Inc. and Pope MGP, Inc. As of December 31, 2020, the Company owned a 96.9% interest in the Operating Partnership, with the remaining 3.1% interest owned by limited partners of the Operating Partnership. As the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership, Rayonier Inc. has exclusive control of the day-to-day management of the Operating Partnership.
The Contribution was accounted for as a change in reporting entity between entities under common control in accordance with ASC 250-10-45-21. A change in reporting entity requires retrospective application for all periods as if the Contribution had been in effect since inception of common control. As a result, the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto for Rayonier, L.P. in this combined report have been prepared as if the change in reporting entity occurred on January 1, 2018.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The effect of the change in reporting entity on Rayonier, L.P.’s operating income, net income attributable to Rayonier, L.P. and per unit amounts for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 are presented below (in thousands, except per unit amounts):
(a) The effect of the change in net income attributable to Rayonier, L.P. is due to the interest expense and guarantee fees associated with the 2022 Notes.
MERGER WITH POPE RESOURCES
On May 8, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Pope Resources. Therefore, Pope Resources’ balance sheet and results of operations are included in our consolidated financial statements from and after the date of acquisition. See Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources, Note 8 - Debt, and Note 21 - Charges for Integration and Restructuring for further information pertaining to the merger.
As a result of the Mergers, we have revised our reportable business segments, adding one additional segment, Timber Funds. Please see Note 7 - Segment and Geographical information for more information about our revised business segments.
RECLASSIFICATIONS
Effective April 1, 2020, we changed the composition of our Rural and Timberland & Non-Strategic Real Estate sales categories to better align with the way management internally evaluates real estate sales. The Rural category now includes all real estate sales (excluding development sales) representing a demonstrable premium above timberland value. The Timberland & Non-Strategic category now includes all real estate sales representing little to no premium to timberland value. This category consists primarily of sales of property that management views as non-strategic to our long-term portfolio as well as sales of property for capital allocation purposes that do not fit the definition of a Large Disposition. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to reflect the new composition of these two sales categories. The Improved Development, Unimproved Development and Large Disposition categories remain unchanged, and this reclassification had no impact on overall segment results. See Note 3 - Revenue.
USE OF ESTIMATES
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and to disclose contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. There are risks inherent in estimating and therefore actual results could differ from those estimates.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and other highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE
Accounts receivable are primarily amounts due to us for the sale of timber and are presented net of an allowance for doubtful accounts.
INVENTORY
HBU real estate properties that are expected to be sold within one year are included in inventory at the lower of cost or net realizable value. HBU properties that are expected to be sold after one year are included in a separate balance sheet line entitled “Higher and Better Use Timberlands and Real Estate Development Investments.” See below for additional information.
Inventory also includes logs available to be sold by the Trading segment. Log inventory is recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value and expensed to cost of sales when sold to third-party buyers. See Note 22 - Inventory for additional information.
PREPAID LOGGING ROADS
Costs for roads built in the Pacific Northwest and New Zealand to access particular tracts to be harvested in the upcoming 24 months to 60 months are recorded as prepaid logging roads. We charge such costs to expense as timber is harvested using an amortization rate determined annually as the total cost of prepaid roads divided by the estimated tons of timber to be accessed by those roads. The prepaid balance is classified as short-term or long-term based on the upcoming harvest schedule. See Note 24 - Other Assets for additional information.
PATRONAGE DIVIDENDS
As a requirement of the Farm Credit Act, borrowers in the Farm Credit System are required to purchase equity in Farm Credit lenders. The equity balance primarily represents shares of Class A common stock in CoBank valued at $100 par value. CoBank equity purchases continue annually until a balance equal to 8% of our 10-year historical average loan balance at CoBank is obtained. Initially, a minimal equity purchase was made in cash upon receiving the loan proceeds. Subsequently, equity purchases are made annually through patronage dividends, of which approximately 75% is cash and 25% is equity. The stock has no cash value until retired. As our loans are paid in full, the stock is generally retired over a 10-year loan base period beginning in the year following loan payoff.
Estimated cash and equity dividends are recognized as an offset to interest expense in the period earned. These estimates are calculated by applying the weighted average debt balance with each participating lender to a historical dividend rate. Changes in assumptions, as well as changes in actual experience, could cause the estimates to change. See Note 8 - Debt and Note 24 - Other Assets for additional information.
DEFERRED FINANCING COSTS
Deferred financing costs related to revolving debt are capitalized and amortized to interest expense over the term of the revolving debt using a method that approximates the effective interest method. See Note 24 - Other Assets for additional information on deferred financing costs related to revolving debt. See Note 8 - Debt for additional information on deferred financing costs related to term debt.
CAPITALIZED SOFTWARE COSTS
Software costs are capitalized and amortized over a period not exceeding five years using the straight-line method.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
TIMBER AND TIMBERLANDS
Timber is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Costs relating to acquiring, planting and growing timber including real estate taxes, site preparation and direct support costs relating to facilities, vehicles and supplies, are capitalized. A portion of timberland lease payments are capitalized based on the proportion of acres with merchantable timber volume remaining to be harvested under the lease term and the residual portion of the lease payments are expensed as incurred. Payroll costs are capitalized for time spent on timber growing activities, while interest or any other intangible costs are not capitalized. An annual depletion rate is established for each particular region by dividing merchantable inventory cost by standing merchantable inventory volume, which is estimated annually. We charge accumulated costs attributed to merchantable timber to depletion expense (cost of sales) at the time the timber is harvested or when the underlying timberland is sold.
Upon the acquisition of timberland, we make a determination on whether to combine the newly acquired merchantable timber with an existing depletion pool or to create a new, separate pool. This determination is based on the geographic location of the new timber, the customers/markets that will be served and the species mix. If the acquisition is similar, the cost of the acquired timber is combined into an existing depletion pool and a new depletion rate is calculated for the pool. This determination and depletion rate adjustment normally occurs in the quarter following the acquisition.
HIGHER AND BETTER USE TIMBERLANDS AND REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS
HBU timberland is recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value. These properties are managed as timberlands until sold or developed, with sales and depletion expense related to the harvesting of timber accounted for within the respective timber segment. At the time of sale, the cost basis of any unharvested timber is recorded as depletion expense, a component of cost of sales, within the Real Estate segment.
HBU timberland and real estate development investments expected to be sold within twelve months are recorded as inventory. See Note 9 - Higher and Better Use Timberlands and Real Estate Development Investments for additional information.
REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS
Real estate development investments include capitalized costs for targeted infrastructure improvements, such as roadways and utilities. The capitalization period relating to real estate development investments is the period in which activities necessary to ready a property for its intended use are in progress. The period begins when such activities commence, typically when we begin the site work for land already owned, and ends when the improvement is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Determination of when construction of a project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use is subjective and requires business judgement. As such, we determine when the capitalization period begins and ends through communication with project and other managers responsible for the tracking and oversight of individual projects.
We capitalize costs directly associated with development and construction of identified real estate projects, such as infrastructure, roadways, utilities, amenities and/or other improvements designed to enhance marketability and create parcels, pads and/or lots for sale. We capitalize interest based on the amount of underlying expenditures on real estate projects under development.
IMPAIRMENT OF HBU TIMBERLANDS AND REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS
We review our higher and better use timberlands and real estate development investments for potential impairment indicators whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Impairment indicators for each development project are assessed separately and include, but are not limited to, significant decreases in sales pace or average selling prices, significant increases in expected land development and construction costs, and projected losses on expected future sales. Development projects have extended life cycles that may last 20 to 40 years, or longer, and have few long-term contractual cash flows. Development periods often occur through several economic cycles. Subjective factors such as the expected timing of property development and sales, optimal development density and sales strategy impact the timing and amount of expected future cash flows and fair value.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The evaluation of anticipated cash flows is highly subjective and is based in part on assumptions regarding future economic conditions, such as construction costs and sales values that could differ materially from actual results in future periods. If impairment indicators exist and it is expected that undiscounted cash flows generated by the asset are less than its carrying amount less costs to sell, an impairment provision is recorded to write-down the carrying amount of the asset to its fair value.
PROPERTY, PLANT, EQUIPMENT AND DEPRECIATION
Property, plant and equipment additions are recorded at cost, including applicable freight, interest, construction and installation costs. We generally depreciate our assets, including office and transportation equipment, using the straight-line depreciation method over 3 to 25 years. Buildings and land improvements are depreciated using the straight-line method over 15 to 35 years and 5 to 30 years, respectively.
Gains and losses on the sale or retirement of assets are included in operating income. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets that are held and used is measured by net undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is the amount the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the assets, which is based on a discounted cash flow model. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
LEASES
At inception, we determine if an arrangement is a lease and whether that lease meets the classification criteria of a finance or operating lease. Operating leases are included in right-of-use (“ROU”) assets, other current liabilities, and long-term lease liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The income generated from our commercial and residential leases in Port Gamble are accounted for in accordance with Topic 842. We recognize the total minimum lease payments provided for under the leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
ROU assets represent our right to use an underlying asset for the lease term and lease liabilities represent the obligation to make lease payments arising from the lease. Operating lease ROU assets and liabilities are recognized at the lease commencement date based on the estimated present value of lease payments over the lease term. To estimate the incremental borrowing rate, we derive the rate by applying a spread over U.S. Treasury rates with similar durations to our lease payments. Lease terms may include options to extend or terminate the lease when it is reasonably certain that we will exercise that option. Lease expense for lease payments is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS IMPAIRMENT
Operating lease right-of-use assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset group to which the operating lease is assigned may not be recoverable. Recoverability of the asset group is evaluated based on forecasted undiscounted cash flows. If the carrying amount of the asset group is not recoverable, the fair value of the asset group is compared to its carrying amount and an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value. A discounted cash flow approach using market participant assumptions of the expected cash flows and discount rate are used to estimate the fair value of the asset group.
INVESTMENTS
Investments are carried at fair value based on quoted prices in their active market with both the realized and unrealized gains and losses as well as interest and dividends reported in “Interest and other miscellaneous income, net.” Investments at December 31, 2019 consisted of marketable equity securities and none were held at December 31, 2020.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. A three-level hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value was established as follows:
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. This includes certain pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies and similar techniques that use significant unobservable inputs.
ENVIRONMENTAL REMEDIATION LIABILITIES
Environmental remediation liabilities have been evaluated using a combination of methods. The liability is estimated based on amounts included in construction contracts and estimates for construction contingencies, project management, and other professional fees. See Note 13 - Environmental and Natural Resource Damages Liabilities for more information.
GOODWILL
Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition cost of the New Zealand Timber segment over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but is periodically reviewed for impairment. An impairment test for this reporting unit’s goodwill is performed annually and whenever events or circumstances indicate that the value of goodwill may be impaired. We compare the fair value of the New Zealand Timber segment, using an independent valuation for the New Zealand forest assets, to its carrying value including goodwill. The independent valuation of the New Zealand forest assets is based on discounted cash flow models where the fair value is calculated using cash flows from sustainable forest management plans. The fair value of the forest assets is measured as the present value of cash flows from one growth cycle based on the productive forest land, taking into consideration environmental, operational, and market restrictions. These cash flow valuations involve a number of estimates that require broad assumptions and significant judgment regarding future performance. The annual impairment test was performed as of October 1, 2020; the estimated fair value of the New Zealand Timber segment exceeded its carrying value and no impairment was recorded. Except for changes in the New Zealand foreign exchange rate, there have been no adjustments to the carrying value of goodwill since the initial recognition. See Note 24 - Other Assets for additional information.
FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION AND REMEASUREMENT
The functional currency of our New Zealand-based operations is the New Zealand dollar. All assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate in effect at the respective balance sheet dates. Translation gains and losses are recorded as a separate component of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (“AOCI”), within Shareholders’ Equity.
U.S. denominated transactions of the New Zealand subsidiary are remeasured into New Zealand dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the date of the transaction and recognized in earnings, net of related cash flow hedges. All income statement items of the New Zealand subsidiary are translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes using monthly average exchange rates with translation gains and losses being recorded as a separate component of AOCI, within Shareholders’ Equity.
REDEEMABLE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP UNITS
Limited partners holding Redeemable Operating Partnership Units have the right to put any and all of the units to the Operating Partnership in exchange for Rayonier registered common shares, on a one-for-one basis, or cash, at Rayonier’s option. Consequently, these Redeemable Operating Partnership Units are classified outside of permanent partners’ capital in the Operating Partnership's accompanying balance sheets and the related
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
noncontrolling interest is classified outside of permanent equity in the accompanying balance sheets of Rayonier. The recorded value of the Redeemable Operating Partnership Units is based on the higher of 1) initial carrying amount, increased or decreased for its share of net income or loss, other comprehensive income or loss, and dividend or 2) redemption value as measured by the closing price of Rayonier common stock on the balance sheet date multiplied by the total number of Redeemable Operating Partnership Units outstanding.
RELATED PARTY
We follow ASC 850, Related Party Disclosure, for the identification of related parties and disclosure of related party transactions. A party is considered to be related to us if the party, directly or indirectly or through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with us. Related parties also include principal owners, management and directors, as well as members of their immediate families or any other parties with which we may deal if one party to a transaction controls or can significantly influence the management or operating policies of the other to an extent that one of the transacting parties might be prevented from fully pursuing its own separate interests.
Transactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an arm’s-length basis, as the requisite conditions of competitive, free-market dealings may not exist. Representations about transactions with related parties, if made, shall not imply that the related party transactions were consummated on terms equivalent to those that prevail in arm’s-length transactions unless such representations can be substantiated. See Note 28 - Related Party.
BUSINESS COMBINATION
We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting, under which all assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including amounts attributable to noncontrolling interest, are recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. The preliminary allocation of purchase price in a business combination uses significant assumptions and estimates. Critical estimates include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows, including revenues and expenses, and applicable discount rates. While we believe our estimates and assumptions to be reasonable, they are subject to change as we obtain additional information related to those estimates during the applicable measurement periods (up to one year from the acquisition date).
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, we are required to record preliminary values in the financial statements for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Adjustments to the preliminary recorded values, which are identified during the measurement period, are recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustments are determined. This includes any effect on earnings of changes in depletion, depreciation or amortization, or other income effects as a result of the change to the recorded values, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date. During the measurement period, we are also required to recognize additional assets or liabilities if new information is obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have resulted in the recognition of those assets and liabilities as of that date. The measurement period ends the sooner of one year from the acquisition date or when we receive the information we were seeking about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date or learn that more information is not obtainable. See Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources
REVENUE RECOGNITION
We recognize revenues when control of promised goods or services (“performance obligations”) is transferred to customers, in an amount that reflects the consideration expected in exchange for those goods or services (“transaction price”). We generally satisfy performance obligations within a year of entering into a contract and therefore have applied the disclosure exemption found under ASC 606-10-50-14. Unsatisfied performance obligations as of December 31, 2020 are primarily due to advances on stumpage contracts and unearned hunt license revenue. These performance obligations are expected to be satisfied within the next twelve months. We generally collect payment within a year of satisfying performance obligations and therefore have elected not to adjust revenues for a financing component.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
TIMBER SALES
Revenue from the sale of timber is recognized when control passes to the buyer. We utilize two primary methods or sales channels for the sale of timber - a stumpage/standing timber model and a delivered log model. The sales method we employ depends upon local market conditions and which method management believes will provide the best overall margins.
Under the stumpage model, standing timber is sold primarily under pay-as-cut contracts, with a specified duration (typically one year or less) and fixed prices, whereby revenue is recognized as timber is severed and the sales volume is determined. We also sell stumpage under lump-sum contracts for specified parcels where we receive cash for the full agreed value of the timber prior to harvest and control passes to the buyer upon signing the contract. We retain interest in the land, slash products and the use of the land for recreational and other purposes. Any uncut timber remaining at the end of the contract period reverts to us. Revenue is recognized for lump-sum timber sales when payment is received, the contract is signed and control passes to the buyer. A third type of stumpage sale we utilize is an agreed-volume sale, whereby revenue is recognized using the output method, as periodic physical observations are made of the percentage of acreage harvested.
Under the delivered log model, we hire third-party loggers and haulers to harvest timber and deliver it to a buyer. Sales of domestic logs generally do not require an initial payment and are made to third-party customers on open credit terms. Sales of export logs generally require a letter of credit from an approved bank. Revenue is recognized when the logs are delivered and control has passed to the buyer. For domestic log sales, control is considered passed to the buyer as the logs are delivered to the customer’s facility. For export log sales (primarily in New Zealand), control is considered passed to the buyer upon delivery onto the export vessel.
The following table summarizes revenue recognition and general payment terms for timber sales:
NON-TIMBER SALES
Non-timber sales are primarily comprised of hunting and recreational licenses, carbon credits and other auxiliary income. Hunting and recreational license sales and any related costs are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement and included in “Sales” and “Cost of sales,” respectively. Payment is generally due upon contract execution. The New Zealand Emissions Trading Scheme (“NZ ETS”) incentivizes the lowering of greenhouse gas emissions by providing carbon credits to certain organizations that lower carbon emission. Our New Zealand segment regularly sells carbon credits and recognizes income as they are sold to other carbon emitting entities.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
LOG TRADING
Log trading revenue is generally recognized when procured logs are delivered to the buyer and control has passed. For domestic log trading, control is considered passed to the buyer as the logs are delivered to the customer’s facility. For export log trading, control is considered passed to the buyer upon delivery onto the export vessel. The Trading segment also includes sales from log agency contracts, whereby we act as an agent managing export services on behalf of third parties. Revenue for log agency fees are recognized net of related costs.
REAL ESTATE
We recognize revenue on sales of real estate generally at the point in time when cash has been received, the sale has closed and control has passed to the buyer. A deposit of 5% is generally required at the time a purchase and sale agreement is executed, with the balance due at closing. On sales of development real estate containing future performance obligations, revenue is recognized using the cost input method based on development costs incurred to date relative to the total development costs allocated to the contract with the customer. The aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to unsatisfied obligations is recorded and presented in “Deferred revenue” in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
COST OF SALES
Cost of sales associated with timber operations primarily include the cost basis of timber sold (depletion) and logging and transportation costs (cut and haul). Depletion includes the amortization of capitalized costs (site preparation, planting and fertilization, real estate taxes, timberland lease payments and certain payroll costs). Other costs include amortization of capitalized costs related to road and bridge construction and software, depreciation of fixed assets and equipment, road maintenance, severance and excise taxes and fire prevention.
Cost of sales associated with real estate sold includes the cost of the land, the cost of any timber on the property that was conveyed to the buyer, any real estate development costs and any closing costs including sales commissions that may be borne by us. We expense closing costs, including sales commissions, when incurred for all real estate sales with future performance obligations expected to be satisfied within one year.
When developed residential or commercial land is sold, the cost of sales includes actual costs incurred and estimates of future development costs benefiting the property sold through completion. Costs are allocated to each sold acre or lot based upon the relative sales value of each acre or lot as compared to the estimated sales value of the total project. For purposes of allocating development costs, estimates are reevaluated at least annually and more frequently if warranted by market conditions, changes in the project’s scope or other factors, with any adjustments being allocated prospectively to the remaining units available for sale.
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
The determination of expense and funding requirements for our defined benefit pension plan, its unfunded excess pension plan and its postretirement life insurance plan are largely based on a number of actuarial assumptions. The key assumptions include discount rate, return on assets, mortality rates and longevity of employees. See Note 18 - Employee Benefit Plans for assumptions used to determine benefit obligations, and the net periodic benefit cost for the year ended December 31, 2020.
Periodic pension and other postretirement expense is included in “Cost of sales,” “Selling and general expenses” and “Interest and other miscellaneous income, net” in the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income. The service cost component of net periodic benefit cost is included in “Cost of sales” and “Selling and general expenses” while the other components of net periodic benefit cost (interest cost, expected return on plan assets and amortization of losses or gains) are presented outside of income from operations in “Interest and other miscellaneous income, net.” At December 31, 2020 and 2019, our pension plans were in a net liability position (underfunded) of $21.6 million and $23.8 million, respectively. The estimated amount to be paid in the next 12 months is recorded in “Accrued payroll and benefits” on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, with the remainder recorded as a long-term liability in “Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits.” Changes in the funded status of our plans are recorded through other comprehensive (loss) income in the year in which the changes occur. We measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the fiscal year-end. See Note 18 - Employee Benefit Plans for additional information.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
INCOME TAXES
We use the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured pursuant to tax laws using rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. We recognize the effect of a change in income tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income in the period that includes the enactment date of the rate change. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets if it is more-likely-than-not that such deferred tax assets will not be realized.
In determining the provision for income taxes, we compute an annual effective income tax rate based on annual income by legal entity, permanent differences between book and tax, and statutory income tax rates by jurisdiction. Inherent in the effective tax rate is an assessment of the ultimate outcome of current period uncertain tax positions. We adjust our annual effective tax rate as additional information on outcomes or events becomes available. Discrete items such as taxing authority examination findings or legislative changes are recognized in the period in which they occur.
Our income tax returns are subject to audit by U.S. federal, state and foreign taxing authorities. In evaluating the tax benefits associated with various tax filing positions, we record a tax benefit for an uncertain tax position if it is more-likely-than-not to be realized upon ultimate settlement of the issue. We record a liability for an uncertain tax position that does not meet this criterion. We adjust our liabilities for uncertain tax benefits in the period in which it is determined the issue is settled with the taxing authorities, the statute of limitations expires for the relevant taxing authority to examine the tax position or when new facts or information become available. See Note 11 - Income Taxes for additional information.
RECENTLY ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
We adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments-Credit Losses (Topic 326) on January 1, 2020, with no material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
On March 2, 2020, the SEC adopted amendments to the financial disclosure requirements for guarantors and issuers of guaranteed securities, as well for affiliates whose securities collateralize a registrant’s securities. The amendments revise Rules 3-10 and 3-16 of Regulation S-X, and relocate part of Rule 3-10 and all of Rule 3-16 to the new Article 13 in Regulation S-X, which is comprised of new Rules 13-01 and 13-02. We early adopted the requirements of the amendments on April 1, 2020, which included replacing guarantor condensed consolidating financial information with summarized financial information for the consolidated obligor group (Parent, Issuer, and Guarantor Subsidiaries) as well as no longer requiring guarantor cash flow information, financial information for non-guarantor subsidiaries, and a reconciliation to the consolidated results.
We adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No 2018-14, Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefits Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20) on October 1, 2020, with no material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
We adopted Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No 2019-12, Income Taxes (Topic 740) - Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes on October 1, 2020, with no material impact on the consolidated financial statements.
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
In March 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued ASU No. 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848), which provides optional guidance to ease the potential burden in accounting due to reference rate reform. The guidance in this update provides optional expedients and exceptions for applying U.S. GAAP to contracts, hedging relationships and other transactions affected by reference rate reform if certain criteria are met. The amendments apply only to contracts and hedging relationships that reference LIBOR or another reference rate expected to be discontinued due to reference rate reform. These amendments are effective immediately and may be applied prospectively to contract modifications made and hedging relationships entered into on or before December 31, 2022. We are currently evaluating our contracts and the optional expedients provided by the new standard.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
We have evaluated events occurring from December 31, 2020 to the date of issuance of these Consolidated Financial Statements for potential recognition or disclosure in the consolidated financial statements. No events were identified that warranted recognition or disclosure.
2. MERGER WITH POPE RESOURCES
On May 8, 2020, Rayonier Inc. and Rayonier, L.P. acquired Pope Resources in connection with the Mergers. Pope Resources was a master limited partnership that primarily owned and managed timberlands in the U.S. Pacific Northwest. Pope Resources also managed and co-invested in three private equity timber funds and developed and sold real estate properties. The merger added approximately 124,000 acres of high-quality, predominantly Douglas-fir timberlands to our Pacific Northwest timberland portfolio as well as a private equity timber fund business with three funds comprising approximately 141,000 acres. Additionally, we believe the Mergers augmented our higher-and-better-use real estate pipeline with rural and conservation land sale opportunities and high-potential improved development projects in the West Puget Sound area.
Under the merger agreement, each outstanding unit representing limited partnership interests of Pope Resources was, at the option of its holder, exchanged for either:
• 3.929 shares of Rayonier Inc. common stock
• 3.929 units representing limited partnership interests of Rayonier, L.P.
• $125.00 in cash
Holders of Pope Resources units who did not make a valid election received shares of Rayonier common stock. The elections were subject to proration to ensure that the aggregate amount of Rayonier shares and Rayonier, L.P. units, on the one hand, and cash, on the other hand, issued in the merger equaled the amounts issued as if every Pope Resources unit converted into merger consideration received 2.751 shares of Rayonier common stock or Rayonier, L.P. units and $37.50 in cash.
Upon consummation of the merger, all outstanding Pope Resources restricted units were converted into equivalent equity awards with respect to Rayonier common shares. Pope Resources directors and some executive employees of Pope Resources held restricted Pope Resources units that were subject to accelerated vesting in connection with the merger. Since a portion of these Pope Resources units relate to services rendered to Pope Resources prior to the merger, a portion of the replacement Rayonier restricted stock awards’ fair value is included in the consideration transferred. See additional details about the replacement restricted stock awards in Note 19 - Incentive Stock Plans.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following table summarizes the total consideration transferred by Rayonier in the merger (dollars in thousands, except per share and per unit data):
(a)The closing price of Rayonier common stock on the NYSE on May 7, 2020.
(b)See Note 19 - Incentive Stock Plans for additional details.
(c)Represents the fair value of Rayonier replacement restricted stock awards for restricted Pope Resources units held by employees that relate to pre-merger services rendered to Pope Resources.
(d)Based on the closing price of Pope Resources units on the NASDAQ on May 7, 2020.
The following table contains the amounts of cash transferred in the merger and net cash consideration shown in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2020:
We recognized approximately $17.2 million of merger-related costs that were expensed during the year ended December 31, 2020. See Note 21 - Charges for Integration and Restructuring for descriptions of the components of merger-related costs.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The acquisition of Pope Resources has been accounted for as a business combination under ASC 805, Business Combinations, (“ASC 805”). Under ASC 805, assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination must be recorded at their fair value as of the acquisition date. Recorded fair valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed related to the acquisition of Pope Resources is preliminary and will be completed as soon as practicable, but no later than one year after the consummation of the transaction. Pursuant to ASC 805, the financial statements will not be retrospectively adjusted for any changes to the recorded values that occur in subsequent periods. Rather, we will recognize any changes to the recorded values during the reporting period in which the adjustments are determined. We will also be required to record, in the same period's financial statements, the effect on earnings of changes in depletion, depreciation, amortization, or other income effects, if any, as a result of changes to recorded values, calculated as if the accounting had been completed at the acquisition date.
Our consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020, include results of operations for Pope Resources from May 8, 2020 through December 31, 2020.
As a result of refinements to timberlands and property, plant and equipment preliminary recorded values, we recognized the following changes in depletion and depreciation in the fourth quarter of 2020:
The preliminary estimate of fair value required the use of significant assumptions and estimates. Critical estimates included, but were not limited to, future expected cash flows, including projected revenues and expenses, and the applicable discount rates. These estimates were based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. The assessment of fair value is preliminary and is based on information that was available to management at the time the consolidated financial statements were prepared. Those estimates and assumptions are subject to change as we obtain additional information related to those estimates during the applicable measurement periods (up to one year from the acquisition date). The most significant open items necessary to complete are related to timberlands, real property, higher and better use timberlands and real estate development investments, environmental liabilities and tax related matters.
The preliminary fair value estimates were generally based on significant inputs that are not observable in the market and thus represent Level 3 measurements as defined in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement, (“ASC 820”) with the exception of certain long-term debt instruments assumed in the merger that can be valued using observable market inputs and are therefore Level 2 measurements. See Note 17 - Fair Value Measurements for further information on the fair value hierarchy.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following summarizes the fair value methodology utilized in our preliminary fair value estimates for significant assets and liabilities:
Income Approach - Estimates fair value for an asset based on the present value of cash flow projected to be generated by the asset. Projected cash flows are discounted at rates of return that reflect the relative risk of achieving the cash flows and the time value of money. This approach was primarily used to value acquired timberlands in our Pacific Northwest segment.
Cost Approach - Estimates value by determining the current cost of replacing an asset with another of equivalent economic utility. This approach was primarily used for property and equipment and timberlands in our Timber Funds segment.
Market Approach - Estimates fair value for an asset based on values of recent comparable transactions. This approach was primarily used to value higher and better use timberlands and real estate developments investments, certain land and building assets and long-term debt instruments.
The preliminary allocation of purchase price to the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based on preliminary estimates of fair value as of May 8, 2020, and is as follows (in thousands):
(a)Other non-current liabilities includes a $2.0 million deferred income tax liability resulting from the preliminary fair value adjustment to Pope Resources’ assets and liabilities.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
These estimated fair values are preliminary in nature and subject to adjustments, which could be material. We have not identified any material unrecorded pre-merger contingencies where the related asset, liability or impairment is probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Our valuations will be finalized when certain information arranged to be obtained has been received and our review of that information has been completed. Prior to the finalization of the purchase price allocation, if information becomes available that would indicate it is probable that such events had occurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, such items will be included in the final purchase price allocation.
In September 2020, fires in Oregon burned approximately 6,700 acres of land owned by ORM Timber Fund II, which we manage and in which we hold a 20% ownership interest, and approximately 400 acres of land owned by ORM Timber Fund IV, which we manage and in which we hold a 15% ownership interest. As a result, we wrote off $8.8 million and $0.4 million of non-salvageable timber basis in Timber Fund II and Timber Fund IV, of which $1.8 million and $0.1 million was attributable to Rayonier, respectively. The amounts of these write-offs are based on preliminary fair value estimates of the underlying basis in the respective Funds’ timberlands and are subject to adjustments, which could be material. As a result of refinements to the preliminary purchase allocation, value of timber write-offs from the Oregon fires increased by an inconsequential amount. Once the purchase price allocation is finalized, the amounts of the write-offs may change.
The amount of revenue of Pope Resources included in our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income from the date of the merger to December 31, 2020 is approximately $50.8 million. The net income effect resulting from the merger with Pope Resources for the year ended December 31, 2020 is impracticable to determine, as we immediately integrated Pope Resources into our ongoing operations.
Pursuant to ASC 805, unaudited supplemental pro forma results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, assuming the acquisition had occurred as of January 1, 2019, are presented below (in thousands, except per share and unit amounts):
The unaudited pro forma results include certain pro forma adjustments to net earnings that were directly attributable to the acquisition, assuming the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2019, including the following:
•additional depletion expense that would have been recognized relating to the basis increase in the acquired Timber and Timberlands;
•adjustment to interest expense to reflect the removal of Pope Resources debt and the additional borrowings we incurred in conjunction with the acquisition; and
•a reduction in expenses for year ended December 31, 2020 of $32.4 million for acquisition-related transaction costs.
Pro forma data may not be indicative of the results that would have been obtained had these events occurred at the beginning of the periods presented, nor is it intended to be a projection of future results.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
3. REVENUE
RECLASSIFICATIONS
Effective April 1, 2020, we changed the composition of our Rural and Timberland & Non-Strategic Real Estate sales categories to better align with the way management internally evaluates real estate sales. The Rural category now includes all real estate sales (excluding development sales) representing a demonstrable premium above timberland value. The Timberland & Non-Strategic category now includes all real estate sales representing little to no premium to timberland value. This category consists primarily of sales of property that management views as non-strategic to our long-term portfolio as well as sales of property for capital allocation purposes that do not fit the definition of a Large Disposition. All prior period amounts have been reclassified to reflect the new composition of these two sales categories. The Improved Development, Unimproved Development and Large Disposition categories remain unchanged, and this reclassification had no impact on overall segment results.
NEW REAL ESTATE SALES CATEGORY
Effective September 2020, we added a new Real Estate sales category, “Conservation Easement,” in which we sell the development rights on a property but withhold the rights to grow and harvest timber.
Contract Balances
The timing of revenue recognition, invoicing and cash collections results in accounts receivable and deferred revenue (contract liabilities) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Accounts receivable are recorded when we have an unconditional right to consideration for completed performance under the contract. Contract liabilities relate to payments received in advance of performance under the contract. Contract liabilities are recognized as revenue as (or when) we perform under the contract.
The following table summarizes revenue recognized during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 that was included in the contract liability balance at the beginning of each year:
(a) Revenue recognized was primarily from hunting licenses and the use of advances on pay-as-cut timber sales.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following tables present our revenue from contracts with customers disaggregated by product type for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(a) The years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 reflect the reclassification of certain real estate sales between the Rural and Timberland & Non-Strategic sales categories to better align with the way management internally evaluates real estate sales.
(b) Includes deferred revenue adjustments and marketing fees related to Improved Development sales.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following tables present our timber sales disaggregated by contract type for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
4. TIMBERLAND ACQUISITIONS
In 2020, we acquired approximately 13,000 acres of U.S. timberland located in Alabama, Georgia, and Louisiana through three transactions for an aggregate value of $24.2 million. Approximately $24.1 million of these acquisitions were acquired using like-kind exchange proceeds while the remaining $0.1 million were funded from operating cash flow. Additionally, during 2020, we acquired approximately 2,000 acres of timberland (including approximately 2,000 acres of leased land) in New Zealand for approximately $0.5 million. These acquisitions were funded from operating cash flow.
In 2019, we acquired approximately 62,000 acres of U.S. timberland located in Florida, Georgia, Texas, and Washington through sixteen transactions for an aggregate value of $106.3 million. Approximately $29.8 million of these acquisitions were acquired using like-kind exchange proceeds while the remaining $76.5 million were funded from operating cash flow and the use of our revolving credit facility. Additionally, during 2019, we acquired approximately 9,000 acres of timberland (including approximately 2,000 acres of leased land) in New Zealand for approximately $36.0 million. These acquisitions were funded from operating cash flow.
See Note 8 - Debt for additional information on our revolving credit facility and the New Zealand subsidiary’s working capital facility.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following table summarizes the timberland acquisitions for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(a)Excludes acres and costs related to Pope Resources, for more information on assets and liabilities acquired see Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources.
5. LEASES
TIMBERLAND LEASES
U.S. timberland leases typically have initial terms of approximately 30 to 65 years, with renewal provisions in some cases. New Zealand timberland lease terms typically range between 30 and 99 years. New Zealand lease arrangements generally consist of Crown Forest Licenses (“CFLs”), forestry rights and land leases. A CFL is a license arrangement to use government or privately owned lands to operate a commercial forest. CFLs generally extend indefinitely and may only be terminated upon a 35-year termination notice. If no termination notice is given, the CFLs renew automatically each year for a one-year term. Alternatively, some CFLs extend for a specific term. Once a CFL is terminated, we may be able to obtain a forestry right from the subsequent owner. A forestry right is a license arrangement with a private entity to use their lands to operate a commercial forest. Forestry rights terminate either upon the issuance of a termination notice (which can last 35 to 45 years), completion of harvest, or a specified termination date.
As of December 31, 2020, the New Zealand subsidiary has two CFLs comprising 9,000 gross acres or 8,000 net plantable acres under termination notice that are being relinquished as harvest activities are concluded, as well as two fixed-term CFLs comprising 3,000 gross acres or 2,000 net plantable acres expiring in 2062. Additionally, the New Zealand subsidiary has two forestry rights comprising 32,000 gross acres or 8,000 net plantable acres under termination notice that are being relinquished as harvest activities are concluded.
OTHER NON-TIMBERLAND LEASES
In addition to timberland holdings, we lease properties for certain office locations. Significant leased properties include a regional office in Lufkin, Texas; a Pacific Northwest Timber office in Hoquiam, Washington and a New Zealand Timber and Trading headquarters in Auckland, New Zealand.
LEASE MATURITIES, LEASE COST AND OTHER LEASE INFORMATION
The following table details our undiscounted lease obligations as of December 31, 2020 by type of lease and year of expiration:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following table details components of our lease cost for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(a) The majority of timberland leases are subject to increases or decreases based on either the Consumer Price Index, Producer Price Index or market rates.
(b) Short-term leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recorded on the balance sheet. Lease expense for these leases are expensed on a straight line basis over the lease term. Short-term lease expense was not material for the year ended December 31, 2020.
The following table details components of our lease cost for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Lessor Lease Information
In the Mergers, we acquired income generating commercial and residential leases primarily concentrated in Port Gamble, Washington. Commercial and residential leases have non-lease components of taxes, insurance, and common area maintenance that we have elected not to separate under the ASC 842 practical expedient. Each of these are classified as operating leases. Buildings subject to operating leases had a preliminary cost of $3.5 million and accumulated depreciation of $0.2 million at December 31, 2020.
The following table details our lease income for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Future lease income as of December 31, 2020, based on payments due by period under the lease contracts, are presented in the following table:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
We apply the following practical expedients as allowed under ASC 842:
6. NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS
NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS IN CONSOLIDATED AFFILIATES
Matariki Forestry Group
We maintain a 77% controlling financial interest in Matariki Forestry Group (the “New Zealand subsidiary”), a joint venture that owns or leases approximately 417,000 legal acres of New Zealand timberland. Accordingly, we consolidate the New Zealand subsidiary’s balance sheet and results of operations. The portions of the consolidated financial position and results of operations attributable to the New Zealand subsidiary’s 23% noncontrolling interest are reflected as an adjustment to income in our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income under the caption “Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated affiliates.” Rayonier New Zealand Limited (“RNZ”), a wholly-owned subsidiary, serves as the manager of the New Zealand subsidiary.
In September 2020, the New Zealand subsidiary made a capital distribution to its partners on a pro rata basis in order to redeem certain equity interests. A portion of this capital distribution was reinvested by the partners in shareholder loans to the New Zealand subsidiary. Our capital distribution and portion of the shareholder loan are eliminated in consolidation. The capital distribution to the minority shareholder and its reinvestment in the shareholder loan resulted in the recording of a noncontrolling interest share redemption of $5.1 million and a loan payable by the New Zealand subsidiary in the amount of $23.3 million due in 2025 at a fixed interest rate of 2.95%. As of December 31, 2020, the outstanding balance on the shareholder loan is $24.9 million. Except for changes in the New Zealand foreign exchange rate, there have been no adjustments to the carrying value of the shareholder loan since its inception. See Note 8 - Debt for further information.
The following table sets forth the income attributable to the New Zealand subsidiary’s noncontrolling interests:
ORM Timber Fund II, Inc. (Fund II), ORM Timber Fund III LLC (Fund III), and ORM Timber Fund IV LLC. (Fund IV) (Collectively, the “Funds”)
Upon completion of the Mergers, we became manager of three private equity timber funds, Fund II, Fund III, and Fund IV, and obtained ownership interests in the Funds of 20%, 5%, and 15%, respectively. We determined, based upon an analysis under the variable interest entity guidance, that we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the Funds’ economic success. Therefore, we are considered the primary beneficiary and are required under ASC 810 - Consolidation to consolidate the Funds. Loss attributed to third-party investors is reflected as an adjustment to income in our Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income under the caption “Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated affiliates.”
The following table sets forth the (loss) attributable to the Funds’ noncontrolling interests:
Prior to the Mergers, the Funds were formed by ORM LLC for the purpose of generating a return on investment through the acquisition, management, value enhancement and sale of timberland properties. Each Fund is organized to operate for a specified term from the end of its respective investment period: 10 years for each of Fund
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
II and Fund III, and 15 years for Fund IV. Fund II is scheduled to terminate in March 2023, Fund III is scheduled to terminate in December 2025 and Fund IV is scheduled to terminate in January 2035. The obligations of each of the Funds do not have any recourse to the Company or the Operating Partnership.
Ferncliff Investors
We also acquired in the Mergers an ownership interest in a real estate joint venture entity. In 2017, Ferncliff Management and Ferncliff Investors were formed for the purpose of raising capital from third parties to invest in an unconsolidated real estate joint venture entity (“joint venture investment”), Bainbridge Landing LLC, to develop a five-acre parcel on Bainbridge Island, Washington into a multi-family community containing apartments and townhomes. Ferncliff Management, a wholly-owned subsidiary, serves as manager of Ferncliff Investors and holds a 33.33% equity interest with the remaining ownership interest being held by third-party investors. Ferncliff Investors holds a 50% interest in Bainbridge Landing LLC, the joint venture entity that owns and is developing the property.
We determined, based upon an analysis under the variable interest entity guidance, that we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact Ferncliff Investors economic success. Therefore, we are considered the primary beneficiary and are required under ASC 810 - Consolidation to consolidate Ferncliff Investors. The obligations of Ferncliff Investors do not have any recourse to the Company or the Operating Partnership.
Bainbridge Landing LLC is considered a voting interests entity. Ferncliff Investors accounts for its interest in the joint venture entity under the equity method because neither it nor the other member can exercise control over Bainbridge Landing LLC. Under the equity method, Ferncliff Investors records its share of the net income or loss of Bainbridge Landing LLC. To date, this activity has been a loss primarily due to depreciation and is included in Other operating expense, net in the Real Estate segment. The portion of Ferncliff Investors’ loss attributed to third-party investors is shown within the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income under the caption “Net loss (income) attributable to noncontrolling interests in consolidated affiliates.”
The following table sets forth the (loss) attributable to Ferncliff Investors’ noncontrolling interests:
NONCONTROLLING INTERESTS IN THE OPERATING PARTNERSHIP
Noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership relate to the third-party ownership of Redeemable Operating Partnership Units. Net income attributable to the noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership is computed by applying the weighted average Redeemable Operating Partnership Units outstanding during the period as a percentage of the weighted average total units outstanding to the Operating Partnership’s net income for the period. If a noncontrolling unitholder redeems a unit for a registered common share of Rayonier or cash, the noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership will be reduced and the Company’s share in the Operating Partnership will be increased by the fair value of each security at the time of redemption.
The following table sets forth the Company’s noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
7. SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
As a result of the merger with Pope Resources, we have revised our reportable business segments, adding one additional segment, Timber Funds. The Timber Funds segment represents operations of the three private equity timber funds included in the transaction - Fund II, Fund III and Fund IV (collectively, the “Funds”). Rayonier owns 20% of Fund II, 5% of Fund III, and 15% of Fund IV and is also the managing member of the Funds. As discussed in Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests, the Funds are consolidated into our financial statements. The Timber Funds segment also includes fee revenue paid to us for managing the Funds, which consists of both fixed components based on invested capital and acres under management as well as variable components related to the harvest volumes of the Funds. These fees, which also represent an expense in the Timber Funds segment, are eliminated in consolidation.
We now operate in six reportable segments: Southern Timber, Pacific Northwest Timber, New Zealand Timber, Timber Funds, Real Estate, and Trading.
Sales between operating segments are made based on estimated fair market value, and intercompany sales, purchases and profits (losses) are eliminated in consolidation. We evaluate financial performance based on segment operating income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA. Asset information is not reported by segment, as we do not produce asset information by segment internally.
Operating income as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income is equal to segment income. Certain income (loss) items in the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income are not allocated to segments. These items, which include interest income (expense), miscellaneous income (expense) and income tax expense, are not considered by management to be part of segment operations and are included under “unallocated interest expense and other.”
Segment information for each of the three years ended December 31 follows:
(a)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $22.7 million of sales attributable to noncontrolling interest in Timber Funds.
(b)The years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 reflect the reclassification of certain real estate sales between the Rural and Timberland & Non-Strategic sales categories to better align with the way management internally evaluates real estate sales.
(c)Primarily consists of the elimination of timberland investment management fees paid to us by the timber funds which are initially recognized as sales and cost of sales within the Timber Funds segment, as well as log marketing fees paid to our New Zealand Timber segment from our Southern Timber and Pacific Northwest Timber segments for marketing log export sales.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
(a)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $6.0 million of timber write-offs resulting from casualty events. Timber write-offs resulting from casualty events are recorded within the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income under the caption “Cost of sales.”
(b)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $11.6 million of operating loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in Timber Funds. Included in operating loss attributable to noncontrolling interest in Timber Funds for the year ended December 31, 2020 is $7.3 million related to timber write-offs resulting from casualty events attributable to noncontrolling interest in Timber Funds. The year ended December 31, 2020 also includes $1.8 million of timber write-offs resulting from casualty events attributable to Rayonier. Timber write-offs resulting from casualty events are recorded within the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income under the caption “Cost of sales.”
(c)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $28.7 million from a Large Disposition.
(d)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $17.2 million of integration and restructuring costs related to the merger with Pope Resources. See Note 21 - Charges for Integration and Restructuring for additional details.
(a)Excludes timberland acquisitions presented separately in addition to real estate development investments of $6.5 million, $6.8 million and $9.5 million in the years 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(b)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $2.3 million of capital expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interest in Timber Funds.
(c)Excludes timberland acquired in the Pope Resources merger. For additional information, see Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
(a)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $10.3 million of depreciation, depletion and amortization attributable to noncontrolling interest in Timber Funds.
(b)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes $35.4 million from a Large Disposition.
(a) The ended December 31, 2020 includes $51.6 million from a Large Disposition.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
8. DEBT
Our debt consisted of the following at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(a) See the section below labeled “Long-Term Debt Assumed in the Pope Resources Merger” for additional details.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
Principal payments due during the next five years and thereafter are as follows:
TERM CREDIT AGREEMENT
In August 2015, we entered into a credit agreement with CoBank, ACB, as administrative agent, and a syndicate of Farm Credit institutions and other commercial banks to provide $550 million of new credit facilities, including a nine-year $350 million term loan facility. In April 2020, the maturity date of the Term Credit Agreement was extended from August 5, 2024 to April 1, 2028. In connection herewith, we recorded deferred financing costs in the amount of $0.5 million which are being amortized over the term of the Term Credit Agreement. The periodic interest rate on the term loan facility is subject to a pricing grid based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement. As of December 31, 2020, the periodic interest rate on the term loan facility was LIBOR plus 1.600%. Monthly payments of interest only are due on this loan through maturity. Following the closing of the term loan, we entered into several interest rate swap transactions to fix the cost of the term loan facility over its nine-year term. The term credit agreement allows us to receive annual patronage payments, which are profit distributions made by a cooperative to its member-users based on the quantity or value of business done with the member-user. We estimate the effective interest rate on the term loan facility to be approximately 3.2% after consideration of the interest rate swaps and estimated patronage refunds. For additional information on the our interest rate swaps see Note 16 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities.
3.75% SENIOR NOTES ISSUED MARCH 2012
In March 2012, Rayonier Inc. issued $325 million of 3.75% Senior Notes due 2022, guaranteed by certain subsidiaries. Semi-annual payments of interest only are due on these notes through maturity.
INCREMENTAL TERM LOAN AGREEMENT
In April 2016, we entered into an incremental term loan agreement with CoBank, ACB, as administrative agent, and a syndicate of Farm Credit institutions to provide a 10-year, $300 million incremental term loan. The periodic interest rate on the incremental term loan agreement is subject to a pricing grid based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement. As of December 31, 2020, the periodic interest rate on the incremental term loan was LIBOR plus 1.900%. Monthly payments of interest only are due on this loan through maturity. Following the closing of the incremental term loan, we entered into several interest rate swap transactions to fix the cost of the facility over its 10-year term. We estimate the effective interest rate on the incremental term loan facility to be approximately 2.8% after consideration of the interest rate swaps and estimated patronage payments. For additional information on our interest rate swaps see Note 16 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
2020 INCREMENTAL TERM LOAN AGREEMENT
In April 2020, we entered into an Incremental Term Loan Agreement, which provided for the advancement of a five-year $250 million senior unsecured incremental term loan facility. In connection herewith, we recorded deferred financing costs in the amount of $0.8 million which are being amortized over the term of the 2020 Incremental Term Loan Facility. The proceeds from the 2020 Incremental Term Loan Facility were used to fund our acquisition of Pope Resources. As of December 31, 2020, the periodic interest rate on the incremental term loan was LIBOR plus 1.850%. Monthly payments of interest only are due on this loan through maturity. Following the closing of the incremental term loan, we entered into an interest rate swap transaction to fix the cost of the facility over its 5-year term. We estimate the effective interest rate on the incremental term loan facility to be approximately 2.3% after consideration of the interest rate swap and estimated patronage payments. For additional information on our interest rate swaps see Note 16 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities.
REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY
In April 2020, we amended our Revolving Credit Facility, originally entered into in 2015, with two amendments to the credit agreement: the first amendment increased the limit on the Revolving Credit Facility from $200 million to $250 million and extended its maturity date from August 5, 2020 to April 1, 2025, and the second amendment further increased the limit to $300 million. In connection herewith, we recorded deferred financing costs in the amount of $1.2 million which are being amortized over the term of the Revolving Credit Facility. The periodic interest rate on the revolving credit facility is subject to a pricing grid based on our leverage ratio, as defined in the credit agreement. As of December 31, 2020, the periodic interest rate on the revolving credit facility was LIBOR plus 1.500%, with an unused commitment fee of 0.175%. Monthly payments of interest only are due on this loan through maturity.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we made borrowings of $70.0 million and repayments of $152.0 million on our Revolving Credit Facility. At December 31, 2020, we had available borrowings of $299.1 million under the Revolving Credit Facility, net of $0.9 million to secure our outstanding letters of credit.
NEW ZEALAND SUBSIDIARY DEBT
In April 2013, we acquired an additional 39% interest in our New Zealand subsidiary, bringing our total ownership to 65%, and as a result, the New Zealand subsidiary’s debt was consolidated effective on that date. On March 3, 2016, as a result of a capital contribution, our ownership interest in the New Zealand subsidiary increased to 77%. See Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests for further information.
WORKING CAPITAL FACILITY
In June 2020, the New Zealand subsidiary renewed its NZ$20 million working capital facility for an additional 12-month term. The NZ$20 million working capital facility is available for short-term operating cash flow needs of the New Zealand subsidiary. This facility holds a variable interest rate indexed to the 90-day New Zealand Bank Bill rate (“BKBM”). The margins are set for the term of the facility. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the New Zealand subsidiary made no borrowings and repayments on its working capital facility. At December 31, 2020, there was no outstanding balance on the working capital facility.
SHAREHOLDER LOAN
In September 2020, the New Zealand subsidiary made a capital distribution to its partners on a pro rata basis in order to redeem certain equity interests. A portion of this capital distribution was reinvested by the partners in shareholder loans to the New Zealand subsidiary. Our capital distribution and portion of the shareholder loan are eliminated in consolidation. The capital distribution to the minority shareholder and its reinvestment in the shareholder loan resulted in the recording of a noncontrolling interest share redemption of $5.1 million and a loan payable by the New Zealand subsidiary in the amount of $23.3 million due in 2025 at a fixed interest rate of 2.95%. As of December 31, 2020, the outstanding balance on the shareholder loan is $24.9 million. Except for changes in the New Zealand foreign exchange rate, there have been no adjustments to the carrying value of the shareholder loan since its inception.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
LONG-TERM DEBT ASSUMED IN THE POPE RESOURCES MERGER
Northwest Farm Credit Services Credit Facility
We assumed five tranches of a credit facility payable to Northwest Farm Credit Services (the “NWFCS Credit Facility”) totaling $45.0 million. Quarterly payments of interest only are due on the NWFCS Credit Facility through the respective maturity of each tranche. The NWFCS Credit Facility is collateralized by a portion of the Pacific Northwest timberlands acquired in the merger with Pope Resources. The NWFCS Credit Facility allows us to receive annual patronage payments, which are profit distributions made by a cooperative to its member-users based on the quantity or value of business done with the member-user.
The pertinent details of each tranche of the NWFCS Credit Facility we assumed are as follows:
(a)Estimated effective fixed interest rates as of December 31, 2020 after consideration of estimated patronage refunds.
(b)The fair market value premium will be amortized as a benefit to interest expense over the maturity term of each tranche.
Fund II Mortgage Payable
We assumed Fund II's two mortgages payable (the “Fund II Mortgages Payable”) to MetLife totaling $25.0 million. Quarterly payments of interest only are due on the Fund II Mortgages Payable through their respective maturities. The Fund II Mortgages Payable are collateralized by Fund II Timberlands and do not have any recourse to the Company or the Operating Partnership.
On September 1, 2020, we entered into an agreement to extend the maturity date of the Fund II Mortgages Payable from September 2020 to September 2022. Additionally, the fixed interest rates on both the $11 million tranche and the $14 million tranche were changed to 2.0%, from 4.9% and 3.8%, respectively. Beginning January 1, 2021, this fixed rate will transition to a variable rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 1.700%.
The pertinent details of the Fund II Mortgages Payable are as follows:
(a)Beginning January 1, 2021, this will transition from a fixed to a variable interest rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 1.700%.
(b)The fair market value premium has been amortized as a benefit to interest expense over the original maturity term of each mortgage.
Fund III Mortgage Payable
We assumed Fund III’s two mortgages payable (the “Fund III Mortgages Payable”) to NWFCS totaling $32.4 million. Quarterly payments of interest only are due on the Fund III Mortgages Payable through their respective maturities. The Fund III Mortgages Payable are collateralized by Fund III Timberlands and do not have any recourse to the Company or the Operating Partnership.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The pertinent details of the Fund III Mortgages Payable are as follows:
(a)Estimated effective fixed interest rates as of December 31, 2020 after consideration of estimated patronage refunds.
(b)The fair market value premium will be amortized as a benefit to interest expense over the maturity term of each mortgage.
DEBT COVENANTS - EXCLUDING TIMBER FUNDS
In connection with our $350 million Term Credit Agreement, $300 million Incremental Term Loan Agreement, $250 million 2020 Incremental Term Loan Agreement and $300 million Revolving Credit Facility, customary covenants must be met, the most significant of which include interest coverage and leverage ratios.
The covenants listed below, which are the most significant financial covenants in effect as of December 31, 2020, are calculated on a trailing 12-month basis:
In connection with our $45 million NWFCS Credit Facility, customary covenants must be met, the most significant of which include interest coverage and debt-to-capitalization ratios.
The covenants listed below, which are the most significant financial covenants in effect as of December 31, 2020, are calculated on a trailing 12-month basis:
In addition to these financial covenants listed above, the 2022 Notes, Term Credit Agreement, Incremental Term Loan Agreement, 2020 Incremental Term Loan Facility, Revolving Credit Facility, and NWFCS Credit Facility include customary covenants that limit the incurrence of debt and the disposition of assets, among others. At December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all applicable covenants.
DEBT COVENANTS - TIMBER FUNDS
The Fund II Mortgages Payable to MetLife contains a requirement to maintain a loan-to-value ratio of less than 50%, with the denominator defined as fair market value of the timberland pledged as collateral.
The Fund III Mortgages Payable to NWFCS contain a requirement to maintain a minimum interest coverage ratio of 1.5:1, minimum working capital of $500,000, and a loan-to-value ratio of less than 50%, with the denominator defined as fair market value.
Both Timber Funds are in compliance with their respective debt covenants as of December 31, 2020.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
9. HIGHER AND BETTER USE TIMBERLANDS AND REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT INVESTMENTS
We continuously assess potential alternative uses of our timberlands, as some properties may become more valuable for development, residential, recreation or other purposes. We periodically transfer, via a sale or contribution from the real estate investment trust (“REIT”) entities to taxable REIT subsidiaries (“TRS”), higher and better use (“HBU”) timberlands to enable land-use entitlement, development or marketing activities. We also periodically acquire HBU properties in connection with timberland acquisitions. These properties are managed as timberlands until sold or developed. While the majority of HBU sales involve rural and recreational land, we also selectively pursue various land-use entitlements on certain properties for residential, commercial and industrial development in order to enhance the long-term value of such properties. For selected development properties, we also invest in targeted infrastructure improvements, such as roadways and utilities, to accelerate the marketability and improve the value of such properties.
In the merger with Pope Resources, we acquired HBU properties with an estimated fair value of $26.5 million. This includes development properties in the town of Port Gamble, Washington, development projects in Gig Harbor, Kingston, and Bremerton, Washington and various other assets.
An analysis of higher and better use timberlands and real estate development investments from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 is shown below:
(a)The current portion of Higher and Better Use Timberlands and Real Estate Development Investments is recorded in Inventory. See Note 22 - Inventory for additional information.
(b)Capitalized real estate development investments includes $0.4 million of capitalized interest.
(c)Based on preliminary estimates of fair value as of December 31, 2020. See Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources for additional information.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
10.COMMITMENTS
At December 31, 2020, the future minimum payments under non-cancellable commitments were as follows:
(a)Environmental remediation represents our estimate of potential liability associated with environmental contamination and Natural Resource Damages (NRD) in Port Gamble, Washington. See Note 13 - Environmental and Natural Resource Damage Liabilities for additional information.
(b)Primarily consisting of payments expected to be made on our Wildlight, Richmond Hill and West Puget Sound development projects.
(c)Commitments include payments expected to be made on derivative financial instruments (interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps), timberland deeds and other purchase obligations.
11.INCOME TAXES
Rayonier is a REIT under the Internal Revenue Code and therefore generally does not pay U.S. federal or state income tax. Through the Mergers, Rayonier transferred all of its assets to the Operating Partnership on May 8, 2020. See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for more information. As a result, Rayonier owns a 96.9% interest in the Operating Partnership and conducts substantially all of its timberland operations through the Operating Partnership. The taxable income or loss generated by the Operating Partnership is passed through and reported to its unit holders (including the Company) on a Schedule K-1 for inclusion in each unitholder’s income tax return. Certain operations, including log trading and certain real estate activities, such as the entitlement, development and sale of HBU properties, are conducted through our TRS. The TRS subsidiaries are subject to United States federal and state corporate income tax. The New Zealand timber operations are conducted by the New Zealand subsidiary, which is subject to corporate-level tax at 28% in New Zealand and is treated as a partnership for U.S. income tax purposes.
PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
The provision for income taxes for each of the three years ended December 31 follows:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the actual income tax rate for each of the three years ended December 31 follows:
The Company’s effective tax rate is below the 21 percent U.S. statutory rate primarily due to tax benefits associated with being a REIT.
DEFERRED TAXES
Deferred income taxes result from differences between the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses for financial book purposes versus income tax purposes. The nature of the temporary differences and the resulting net deferred tax asset/liability for the two years ended December 31 follows:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
Net operating loss (“NOL”) and tax credit carryforwards as of the two years ended December 31 follows:
(a)The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) was signed into law on December 22, 2017. The TCJA lifted the 20-year federal NOL Carryforward period. Net operating losses generated after 12/31/2017 have an indefinite carryforward period.
(b)The U.S. state NOL is made up of several jurisdictions that expire in various future years. No State NOL is set to expire before 12/31/2031.
(c)The Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 was signed into law on December 20, 2019. The Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 included the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Relief Act of 2019 (Tax Extenders Act), which temporarily renewed approximately two dozen credits that previously expired or were set to expire at the end of 2019. The Cellulosic Biofuel Producer Credit was one of the credits extended under this act.
Valuation allowances are provided when it is considered more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be recorded. Since 2015, we have had a 100% valuation allowance against the U.S. taxable REIT subsidiary's deferred tax assets, net of deferred tax liabilities. During 2020, the net deferred tax assets increased by $6.7 million, and thus the valuation allowance was adjusted accordingly. We recorded a change in the valuation allowance of $6.7 million related to the U.S. TRS's deferred tax assets, net of liabilities.
TAX STATUTES
The following table provides detail of the tax years that remain open to examination by the IRS and other significant taxing jurisdictions:
TAX CHARACTERISTICS OF DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTIONS
The taxable nature of the dividend distributions paid for each of the three years ended December 31 follows:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
12.CONTINGENCIES
We have been named as a defendant in various lawsuits and claims arising in the normal course of business. While we have procured reasonable and customary insurance covering risks normally occurring in connection with our businesses, we have in certain cases retained some risk through the operation of large deductible insurance plans, primarily in the areas of executive risk, property, automobile and general liability. These pending lawsuits and claims, either individually or in the aggregate, are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flow.
13. ENVIRONMENTAL AND NATURAL RESOURCE DAMAGE LIABILITIES
Various federal and state environmental laws in the states in which we operate place cleanup or restoration liability on the current and former owners of affected real estate. These laws are often a source of “strict liability,” meaning that an owner or operator need not necessarily have caused, or even been aware of, the release of contaminated materials. Similarly, there are certain environmental laws that allow state, federal, and tribal trustees (collectively, the “Trustees”) to bring suit against property owners to recover damage for injuries to natural resources. Like the liability that attaches to current property owners in the cleanup context, liability for natural resource damages (“NRD”) can attach to a property simply because an injury to natural resources resulted from releases of contaminated materials on the owner’s property, regardless of culpability for the release.
In connection to the merger with Pope Resources, we assumed ownership of certain real estate in Port Gamble, Washington, which requires environmental remediation under these laws.
An analysis of environmental and NRD liabilities from December 31, 2019 to December 31, 2020 is shown below:
(a)Represents environmental and NRD liabilities assumed in the merger with Pope Resources. Pope & Talbot Inc. operated a sawmill from 1853 to 1995 and conducted shipping, log storage, and log transfer operations in the Port Gamble Bay area from 1974 to 2004. P&T’s operations resulted in the release of contaminated materials to the townsite, millsite, and adjacent bay. Prior to the merger, the in-water portion of the clean up was completed. In November 2020, a consent decree, which includes a cleanup action plan, was entered in Kitsap County Superior Court. Negotiations with the Trustees relating to NRD liabilities are currently ongoing and will ultimately result in agreement as to requested mitigation activities.
These estimates were based on assumptions that we believe to be reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. See Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources for information regarding our preliminary estimates of fair value. It is expected that the millsite cleanup and NRD restoration will occur over the next two to three years, while the monitoring of the Port Gamble Bay, millsite and landfills will continue for an additional 10 to 15 years. The NRD costs are subject to change as the scope of the restoration projects become more clearly defined. It is reasonably possible that these components of the liability may increase as the project progresses. Management continues to monitor the Port Gamble cleanup process and will make adjustments as needed. Should any future circumstances result in a change to the estimated cost of the project, we will record an appropriate adjustment to the liability in the period it becomes known and when we can reasonably estimate the amount. For further information on the timing and amount of future payments related to our environmental remediation liabilities, see Note 10 - Commitments.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
14.GUARANTEES
We provide financial guarantees as required by creditors, insurance programs, and various governmental agencies. As of December 31, 2020, the following financial guarantees were outstanding:
(a)We have not recorded any liabilities for these financial commitments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The guarantees are not subject to measurement, as the guarantees are dependent on our own performance.
(b)Surety bonds are issued primarily to secure performance obligations related to various operational activities, to provide collateral for our Wildlight development project in Nassau County, Florida and in connection with pending and completed sales from the Harbor Hill project in Gig Harbor, Washington. These surety bonds expire at various dates during 2021, 2022 and 2023 and are expected to be renewed as required.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
15.EARNINGS PER SHARE AND PER UNIT
Basic earnings per common share (“EPS”) is calculated by dividing net income attributable to Rayonier Inc. by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing net income attributable to Rayonier Inc., before net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding adjusted to include the potentially dilutive effect of outstanding stock options, performance shares, restricted shares, restricted stock units and noncontrolling interests in Operating Partnership units.
The following table provides details of the calculations of basic and diluted earnings per common share of the Company for the three years ended December 31:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
Basic earnings per unit (“EPU”) is calculated by dividing net income available to unitholders of Rayonier, L.P. by the weighted average number of units outstanding during the year. Diluted EPU is calculated by dividing net income available to unitholders of Rayonier, L.P. by the weighted average number of units outstanding adjusted to include the potentially dilutive effect of outstanding unit equivalents, including stock options, performance shares, restricted shares and restricted stock units.
The following table provides details of the calculations of basic and diluted earnings per unit of the Operating Partnership for the three years ended December 31:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
16.DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES
We are exposed to market risk related to potential fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We use derivative financial instruments to mitigate the financial impact of exposure to these risks. We also use derivative financial instruments to mitigate exposure to foreign currency risk due to the translation of the investment in Rayonier’s New Zealand-based operations from New Zealand dollars to U.S. dollars.
Accounting for derivative financial instruments is governed by Accounting Standards Codification Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, (“ASC 815”). In accordance with ASC 815, we record our derivative instruments at fair value as either assets or liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Changes in the instruments’ fair value are accounted for based on their intended use. Gains and losses on derivatives that are designated and qualify for cash flow hedge accounting are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (“AOCI”) and reclassified into earnings when the hedged transaction materializes. Gains and losses on derivatives that are designated and qualify for net investment hedge accounting are recorded as a component of AOCI and will not be reclassified into earnings until the investment is partially or completely liquidated. The changes in the fair value of derivatives not designated as hedging instruments and those which are no longer effective as hedging instruments, are recognized immediately in earnings.
FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE AND OPTION CONTRACTS
The functional currency of Rayonier New Zealand Limited, and the New Zealand subsidiary is the New Zealand dollar. The New Zealand subsidiary is exposed to foreign currency risk on export sales and ocean freight payments, which are mainly denominated in U.S. dollars. The New Zealand subsidiary typically hedges 50% to 90% of its estimated foreign currency exposure with respect to the following twelve months forecasted sales and purchases less distributions and up to 75% of the forward 12 to 18 months. Additionally, the New Zealand subsidiary will occasionally hedge up to 50% of its estimated foreign currency exposure with respect to the following 18 to 48 months forecasted sales and purchases, less distributions, when New Zealand dollar is at a cyclical low versus the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency exposure from the New Zealand subsidiary’s trading operations is typically hedged based on the following three months forecasted sales and purchases. As of December 31, 2020, foreign currency exchange contracts and foreign currency option contracts had maturity dates through April 2022 and August 2021, respectively.
Foreign currency exchange and option contracts hedging foreign currency risk on export sales and ocean freight payments qualify for cash flow hedge accounting. We may de-designate these cash flow hedge relationships in advance or at the occurrence of the forecasted transaction. The portion of gains or losses on the derivative instrument previously accumulated in other comprehensive (loss) income for de-designated hedges remains in AOCI until the forecasted transaction affects earnings. Changes in the value of derivative instruments after de-designation are recorded in earnings.
INTEREST RATE SWAPS
We are exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on our variable-rate Term Credit Agreement, Incremental Term Loan Agreement and 2020 Incremental Term Loan Facility, and use variable-to-fixed interest rate swaps to hedge this exposure. For these derivative instruments, we report the gains/losses from the fluctuations in the fair market value of the hedges in AOCI and reclassify them to earnings as interest expense in the same period in which the hedged interest payments affect earnings.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following table contains information on the outstanding interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2020:
(a)All interest rate swaps have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting.
(b)The interest rate swap entered in June 2020, was an off-market derivative, meaning it contained an embedded financing element, which the counterparties recovered through an incremental change in the fixed rate over what would have been charged for an at-market swap.
(c)Rate is before estimated patronage payments.
TREASURY LOCKS
During the first quarter of 2020, we entered into treasury lock agreements, which were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges. These derivative instruments hedged the impact of changes in the benchmark interest rate to future interest payments associated with anticipated debt issuances. Prior to expiration, we de-designated and settled the treasury locks by converting them into interest rate swap lock agreements (discussed below). To the extent we de-designate or terminate a cash flow hedging relationship and the associated hedged item continues to exist, any unrealized gain or loss of the cash flow hedge at the time of de-designation remains in AOCI and is amortized using the straight-line method through interest expense over the remaining life of the hedged item. Amounts recorded in AOCI in connection with the settled treasury locks were ($20.8) million which will be reclassified to earnings through interest expense over the life of the 2020 Incremental Term Loan Facility.
The following table contains information on the expired treasury lock agreements entered into during the twelve months ended December 31, 2020:
(a) At inception, all treasury locks were designated as interest rate cash flow hedges and qualified for hedge accounting.
(b) See Note 8 - Debt for more information. We anticipate extending the term of the 2020 Incremental Term Loan facility for an additional five-year term upon maturity.
INTEREST RATE SWAP LOCKS
Upon de-designation, we converted the above treasury lock agreements to interest rate swap lock agreements to hedge the risk of changes in the interest payments attributable to changes in the benchmark LIBOR interest rate associated with anticipated issuances of debt. The interest rate swap locks were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges.
Prior to expiration, we de-designated and partially cash settled $11.1 million of the interest rate swap locks and converted them into interest rate swap agreements. To the extent we de-designate or terminate a cash flow hedging relationship and the associated hedged item continues to exist, any unrealized gain or loss of the cash flow hedge
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
at the time of de-designation remains in accumulated other comprehensive loss and is amortized using the straight-line method through interest expense over the remaining life of the hedged item. Incremental amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss in connection with the settled interest rate swap locks were ($1.4) million, which will be reclassified to earnings through interest expense over the life of the 2020 Incremental Term Loan Facility.
The following table contains information on the terminated interest rate swap lock agreements as of December 31, 2020:
(a) All interest rate swap locks have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting.
(b) These interest rate swap locks were off-market derivatives, meaning they contained an embedded financing element, which the counterparties recovered through an incremental charge in the fixed rate over what would have been charged for an at-market swap lock.
(c) See Note 8 - Debt for information. We anticipate extending the term of the 2020 Incremental Term Loan facility for an additional five-year term upon maturity.
FORWARD-STARTING INTEREST RATE SWAPS
We are exposed to cash flow interest rate risk on anticipated debt issuances and use forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to hedge against changes in future cash flows resulting from changes in interest rates from the trade date through the anticipated issuance date. For these derivative instruments, we report the gains/losses from the fluctuations in the fair market value of the hedges in AOCI and reclassify them to earnings as interest expense in the same period in which the hedged interest payments affect earnings.
The following table contains information on the outstanding forward-starting interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2020:
(a) All forward-starting interest rate swaps have been designated as interest rate cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting.
CARBON OPTIONS
The New Zealand subsidiary enters into carbon options from time to time to sell carbon assets at certain prices. Changes in fair value of the carbon option contracts are recorded in “Interest and other miscellaneous income, net” as the contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment. As of December 31, 2020, all existing carbon option contracts have expired.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following table demonstrates the impact, gross of tax, of our derivatives on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
During the next 12 months, the amount of the December 31, 2020 AOCI balance, net of tax, expected to be reclassified into earnings as a result of the maturation of our derivative instruments is a gain of approximately $4.7 million.
The following table contains the notional amounts of the derivative financial instruments recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(a)Notional amount for carbon options is calculated as the number of units outstanding multiplied by the spot price as of the end of the period.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following table contains the fair values of the derivative financial instruments recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2020 and 2019. Changes in balances of derivative financial instruments are recorded as operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows:
(a)See Note 17 - Fair Value Measurements for further information on the fair value of our derivatives including their classification within the fair value hierarchy.
OFFSETTING DERIVATIVES
Derivative financial instruments are presented at their gross fair values in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Our derivative financial instruments are not subject to master netting arrangements, which would allow the right of offset.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
17.FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
A three-level hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value was established in the Accounting Standards Codification as follows:
Level 1 - Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1.
Level 3 - Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities.
The following table presents the carrying amount and estimated fair values of our financial instruments at December 31, 2020 and 2019, using market information and what we believe to be appropriate valuation methodologies under generally accepted accounting principles:
(a)We did not have Level 3 assets or liabilities at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
(b)Restricted cash represents the proceeds from like-kind exchange sales deposited with a third-party intermediary and cash held in escrow for real estate development obligations. See Note 23 - Restricted Cash for additional information.
(c)The carrying amount of long-term debt is presented net of capitalized debt costs on non-revolving debt. See Note 8 - Debt for additional information.
(d)See Note 16 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities for information regarding the Balance Sheet classification of our derivative financial instruments.
(e)Investments in marketable securities are classified in “Other Assets” based on the nature of the securities and their availability for use in current operations. See Note 24 - Other Assets for additional information.
(f)Noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership is neither an asset nor liability and is classified as temporary equity in the Company’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. This relates to the ownership of Rayonier, L.P. Units by various individuals and entities other than the Company.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
Rayonier uses the following methods and assumptions in estimating the fair value of its financial instruments:
Cash and cash equivalents and Restricted cash - The carrying amount is equal to fair market value.
Debt - The fair value of fixed rate debt is based upon quoted market prices for debt with similar terms and maturities. The variable rate debt adjusts with changes in the market rate, therefore the carrying value approximates fair value.
Interest rate swap agreements - The fair value of interest rate contracts is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows, for each instrument, at prevailing interest rates.
Foreign currency exchange contracts - The fair value of foreign currency exchange contracts is determined by a mark-to-market valuation, which estimates fair value by discounting the difference between the contracted forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate.
Foreign currency option contracts - The fair value of foreign currency option contracts is based on a mark-to-market calculation using the Black-Scholes option pricing model.
Carbon option contracts - The fair value of carbon option contracts is determined by a mark-to-market valuation using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, which estimates fair value by discounting the difference between the contracted forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using a risk-free interest rate.
Marketable equity securities - The fair value of marketable equity securities is determined by quoted prices in their active market.
Noncontrolling Interests in the Operating Partnership - The fair value of noncontrolling interests in the Operating Partnership is determined based on the period-end closing price of Rayonier Inc. common shares.
The following table presents marketable equity securities that have been in a continuous unrealized gain position for less than 12 months and for 12 months or greater at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
18.EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
We have one qualified non-contributory defined benefit pension plan covering a portion of its employees and an unfunded plan that provides benefits in excess of amounts allowable under current tax law in the qualified plans. We closed enrollment in the pension plans to salaried employees hired after December 31, 2005. Effective December 31, 2016, we froze benefits for all employees participating in the pension plan. In lieu of the pension plan, we provide those employees with an enhanced 401(k) plan match similar to what is currently provided to employees hired after December 31, 2005. Employee benefit plan liabilities are calculated using actuarial estimates and management assumptions. These estimates are based on historical information, along with certain assumptions about future events. Changes in assumptions, as well as changes in actual experience, could cause the estimates to change.
The following tables set forth the change in the projected benefit obligation and plan assets and reconcile the funded status and the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets for the pension and postretirement benefit plans for the two years ended December 31:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
Net gains or losses recognized in other comprehensive (loss) income for the three years ended December 31 are as follows:
In 2020, net losses recognized in other comprehensive income for our pension plan was primarily due to an approximate 80 bps decline in the discount rate ($11.2 million) and unfavorable demographic experience ($0.4 million), partially offset by higher than expected return on plan assets ($9.3 million) and updates to mortality rates ($0.7 million). Net losses recognized in other comprehensive income for our postretirement plan was primarily due to an approximate 74 bps decline in the discount rate ($0.2 million).
Net gains or losses reclassified from other comprehensive income and recognized as a component of pension and postretirement expense for the three years ended December 31 are as follows:
Net losses that have not yet been included in pension and postretirement expense for the two years ended December 31, but have been recognized as a component of AOCI are as follows:
For pension and postretirement plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the following table sets forth the projected and accumulated benefit obligations and the fair value of plan assets for the two years ended December 31:
The following tables set forth the components of net pension and postretirement benefit cost (credit) that have been recognized during the three years ended December 31:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following table sets forth the principal assumptions inherent in the determination of benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost of the pension and postretirement benefit plans as of December 31:
At December 31, 2020, the pension plan’s discount rate was 2.3%, which closely approximates interest rates on high quality, long-term obligations. In 2020, the expected return on plan assets remained flat at 5.7%, which is based on historical and expected long-term rates of return on broad equity and bond indices and consideration of the actual annualized rate of return. We utilize this information in developing assumptions for returns, risks and correlations of asset classes, which are then used to establish the asset allocation ranges.
INVESTMENT OF PLAN ASSETS
Our Pension and Savings Plan Committee and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors oversee the pension plans’ investment program, which is designed to maximize returns and provide sufficient liquidity to meet plan obligations while maintaining acceptable risk levels. The investment approach emphasizes diversification by allocating the plans’ assets among asset categories and selecting investment managers whose various investment methodologies will be minimally correlative with each other.
In 2020, we transitioned to a liability-driven investment (“LDI”) strategy. An LDI strategy focuses on maintaining a close to fully-funded status over the long-term with minimal funded status risk. This is achieved by investing more of the plan assets in fixed income instruments to more closely match the duration of the plan liability. The investment allocation to fixed income instruments will increase as the plans' funded status increases. Investment target allocation percentages for equity securities can range up to 80 percent.
Our pension plans’ asset allocation (excluding short-term investments) at December 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows:
Investments within the equity categories may include large capitalization, small capitalization and emerging market securities, while the international fixed income portfolio may include emerging markets debt. Pension assets did not include a direct investment in Rayonier common shares during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
NET ASSET VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Separate investment accounts are measured using the unit value calculated based on the Net Asset Value (“NAV”) of the underlying assets. The NAV is based on the fair value of the underlying investments held by each fund less liabilities divided by the units outstanding as of the valuation date. These funds are not publicly traded; however, the unit price calculation is based on observable market inputs of the funds’ underlying assets.
The following table sets forth the net asset value of the plan assets as of December 31, 2020 or 2019.
CASH FLOWS
Our expected benefit payments to be made for the next 10 years are as follows:
We have no pension contribution requirements in 2021.
DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS
We provide a defined contribution plan to all of our eligible employees. Upon completion of the merger with Pope Resources, former eligible Pope Resource employees were immediately eligible to participate in the Rayonier 401(k) plan. Pope Resources employees’ year of service were credited to the 401(k) plan for vesting purposes. Company match contributions charged to expense for these plans were $1.1 million, $1.0 million and $0.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The defined contribution plan includes Rayonier common shares with a fair market value of $8.5 million and $10.6 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of June 1, 2016, the Rayonier Inc. Common Stock Fund was closed to new contributions. Transfers out of the fund will continue to be permitted, but no new investments or transfers into the fund are allowed.
As discussed above, the defined benefit pension plan is currently frozen. In lieu of the pension plan, employees are eligible to receive an enhanced match contribution. Company enhanced match contributions charged to expense for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were $1.0 million, $0.9 million and $0.8 million, respectively.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
19.INCENTIVE STOCK PLANS
The Rayonier Incentive Stock Plan (the “Stock Plan”) provides up to 15.8 million shares to be granted for incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance shares, restricted stock and restricted stock units, subject to certain limitations. At December 31, 2020, a total of 2.8 million shares were available for future grants under the Stock Plan. Under the Stock Plan, shares available for issuance are reduced by 1 share for each option or right granted and by 2.27 shares for each performance share, restricted share or restricted stock unit granted. We issue new shares of stock upon the exercise of stock options, the granting of restricted stock, and the vesting of performance shares and restricted stock units.
A summary of our stock-based compensation cost is presented below:
(a)Represents amounts capitalized as part of the overhead allocation of timber-related costs.
(b)Represents expense associated with the acceleration of share-based compensation on Pope replacement awards related to qualifying terminations. See Note 21 - Charges for Integration and Restructuring for additional details.
(c)A valuation allowance is recorded against the tax benefit recognized as we do not expect to be able to realize the benefit in the future.
FAIR VALUE CALCULATIONS BY AWARD
RESTRICTED STOCK
Restricted stock granted to employees under the Stock Plan generally vests in fourths on the first, second, third and fourth anniversary of the grant date. Restricted stock granted to senior management generally vests in thirds on the third, fourth, and fifth anniversary of the grant date. Periodically, other one-time restricted stock grants are issued to employees for special purposes, such as new hire, promotion or retention, and can vest ratably over, or upon completion of, a defined period of time. Generally, holders of restricted stock receive dividend equivalent payments on outstanding restricted shares. Restricted stock granted to members of the board of directors generally vests immediately upon issuance and is subject to certain holding requirements. The fair value of each share granted is equal to the share price of the the Company’s stock on the date of grant. We have elected to value each grant in total and recognize the expense on a straight-line basis from the grant date of the award to the latest vesting date. As permitted, we do not estimate a forfeiture rate for non-vested shares. Accordingly, unexpected forfeitures will lower stock-based compensation during the period in which they occur.
REPLACEMENT RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS FROM THE MERGERS
As a result of the Mergers, Rayonier issued 69,176 shares of restricted stock awards (“replacement awards”) in connection with unvested Pope Resources restricted units. Eligible outstanding Pope Resources restricted units were canceled and exchanged for replacement awards, pursuant to an exchange ratio in the merger agreement designed to maintain the intrinsic value of the awards immediately prior to the exchange.
In accordance with ASC 805, these awards are considered to be replacement awards. Exchanges of share-based payment awards in conjunction with a business combination are modifications in accordance with ASC 718, Compensation - Stock Compensation (“ASC 718”). As a result, the portion of the fair-value of replacement awards attributable to pre-merger services were included in measuring the consideration transferred in the business combination. The fair value of the replacement awards was estimated to be approximately $1.7 million of which
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
$0.2 million was attributable to pre-merger services. See Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources for additional information.
REPLACEMENT AWARD EXPENSE
The replacement awards issued have similar vesting provisions as the terms of existing Rayonier restricted stock. Expense for the replacement awards that were not fully vested prior to the date of the merger will continue to be recognized over a weighted average remaining service period of approximately 21 months unless a qualifying termination occurs.
A qualifying termination of an awardee will result in the acceleration of vesting and expense recognition in the period that the qualifying termination occurs. Qualifying terminations during the year ended December 31, 2020 resulted in the accelerated vesting of 15,049 of the replacement awards and recognition of approximately $0.3 million of expense. This accelerated vesting expense is included in merger-related integration costs as described in Note 21 - Charges for Integration and Restructuring.
As of December 31, 2020, there was $2.0 million of unrecognized compensation cost attributable to our restricted stock. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of 1.7 years.
A summary of our restricted stock is presented below:
(a)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes 69,176 replacement awards issued as a result of the merger with Pope Resources.
(b)Intrinsic value of restricted stock outstanding is based on the market price of the Company’s stock at December 31, 2020.
(a)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes 69,176 replacement awards issued as a result of the merger with Pope Resources.
(b)The year ended December 31, 2020 includes 15,049 replacement awards vested as a result of acceleration due to qualifying terminations.
RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
In April 2019, we began granting restricted stock units instead of restricted stock to employees. All attributes of our restricted stock described herein, including vesting characteristics, dividend payments, fair value measurement and expense recognition, apply equally to restricted stock units granted under the Stock Plan.
As of December 31, 2020, there was $5.2 million of unrecognized compensation cost attributable to our restricted stock units. We expect to recognize this cost over a weighted average period of 3.5 years.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
A summary of our restricted stock units is presented below:
(a)Intrinsic value of restricted stock units outstanding is based on the market price of the Company’s stock at December 31, 2020.
PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS
Our performance share units generally vest upon completion of a three-year period. The number of shares, if any, that are ultimately awarded is contingent upon our total shareholder return versus selected peer group companies. The performance share payout is based on a market condition, and as such, the awards are valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The model generates the fair value of the award at the grant date, which is then recognized as expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Additionally, we do not estimate a forfeiture rate for non-vested units. As such, unexpected forfeitures will lower stock-based compensation during the period in which they occur.
The Stock Plan allows for the cash settlement of the required withholding tax on performance share unit awards. As of December 31, 2020, there was $6.3 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to our performance share unit awards, which is attributable to awards granted in 2018, 2019 and 2020. This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.9 years.
A summary of our performance share units is presented below:
(a)Intrinsic value of outstanding performance share units is based on the market price of the Company's stock at December 31, 2020.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
Expected volatility was estimated using daily returns on the Company’s common shares for the three-year period ending on the grant date. The risk-free rate was based on the 3-year U.S. treasury rate on the date of the award. The dividend yield was not used to calculate fair value as awards granted receive dividend equivalents. The following table provides an overview of the assumptions used in calculating the fair value of the awards granted for the three years ended December 31, 2020:
NON-QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE STOCK OPTIONS
The exercise price of each non-qualified stock option granted under the Stock Plan is equal to the closing market price of the Company’s stock on the grant date. Under the Stock Plan, the maximum term is 10 years from the grant date.
A summary of the status of our stock options as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020 is presented below:
A summary of additional information pertaining to our stock options is presented below:
(a)Intrinsic value of options exercised is the amount by which the fair value of the stock on the exercise date exceeded the exercise price of the option.
As of December 31, 2020, compensation cost related to stock options was fully recognized.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
20.OTHER OPERATING (EXPENSE) INCOME, NET
The following table provides the composition of Other operating (expense) income, net for the three years ended December 31:
(a)Includes legal, accounting, due diligence, consulting and other costs related to the merger with Pope Resources. See Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources and Note 21 - Charges for Integration and Restructuring for additional information.
(b)See Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests and Note 27 - Variable Interest Entities for additional information on Ferncliff Investors.
21. CHARGES FOR INTEGRATION AND RESTRUCTURING
During 2020, we have incurred and accrued for termination benefits (primarily severance) and accelerated share-based payment costs based upon actual and expected qualifying terminations of certain employees as a result of restructuring decisions made concurrent with and subsequent to the Mergers. We have also incurred non-recurring professional services costs for investment banking, legal, consulting, accounting and certain other fees directly attributable to the Mergers.
A summary of the charges for integration and restructuring related to the Mergers is presented below:
Changes in accrued severance related to restructuring during 2020 were as follows:
Accrued severance is recorded within “Accrued Payroll and Benefits” in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The accrued severance balance as of December 31, 2020 is expected to be paid within one year.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
22.INVENTORY
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, our inventory was solely comprised of finished goods, as follows:
(a)Represents the cost of HBU real estate (including capitalized development investments) under contract to be sold. See Note 9 - Higher and Better Use Timberlands and Real Estate Development Investments for additional information.
23.RESTRICTED CASH
In order to qualify for like-kind exchange (“LKE”) treatment, the proceeds from real estate sales must be deposited with a third-party intermediary. These proceeds are accounted for as restricted cash until a suitable replacement property is acquired. In the event that the LKE purchases are not completed, the proceeds are returned to us after 180 days and reclassified as available cash. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had $3.0 million and $1.2 million, respectively, of proceeds from real estate sales classified as restricted cash which were deposited with an LKE intermediary as well as cash held in escrow for real estate development obligations.
The following table contains the amount of restricted cash recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
24.OTHER ASSETS
Included in Other Assets are derivatives, goodwill in the New Zealand subsidiary, long-term prepaid roads, patronage equity, marketable equity securities and other deferred expenses including deferred financing costs related to revolving debt and capitalized software costs.
See Note 16 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities for further information on derivatives including their classification on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
Changes in goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were:
See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information on goodwill.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, Rayonier’s prepaid logging and secondary roads follows:
See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information on prepaid logging roads.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, Rayonier’s patronage equity follows:
See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information on patronage equity.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, Rayonier’s deferred financing costs related to revolving debt follows:
See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information on deferred financing costs related to revolving debt.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, Rayonier’s capitalized software costs follows:
See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information on capitalized software costs.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, Rayonier’s investments in marketable equity securities follows:
See Note 1 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for additional information on investments in marketable equity securities. As of December 31, 2019, our investments in marketable equity securities consisted entirely of 114,400 limited partnership units of Pope Resources, originally purchased in an open-market transaction at $65.90 per unit. These units were included as consideration transferred in the merger with Pope Resources. See Note 2 - Merger with Pope Resources for additional information.
25. ASSETS HELD FOR SALE
Assets held for sale is composed of properties not included in inventory under contract and expected to be sold within the next 12 months that also meet the other relevant held-for-sale criteria in accordance with ASC 360-10-45-9. As of December 31, 2020, the basis in properties meeting this classification was $3.4 million. Since the basis in these properties was less than the fair value, including costs to sell, no impairment was recognized. As of December 31, 2019, there were no properties classified as assets held for sale.
26.ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
The following table summarizes the changes in AOCI by component for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. All amounts are presented net of tax effect and exclude portions attributable to noncontrolling interest.
(a)Includes $76.6 million of other comprehensive loss related to interest rate swaps. See Note 16 - Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities for additional information.
(b)This component of other comprehensive (loss) income is included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. See Note 18 - Employee Benefit Plans for additional information.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
The following table presents details of the amounts reclassified in their entirety from AOCI for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
27. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES
ORM Timber Fund II, Inc. (Fund II), ORM Timber Fund III LLC (Fund III), and ORM Timber Fund IV LLC. (Fund IV) (Collectively, the “Funds”)
In the Mergers, we became manager of three private equity timber funds, Fund II, Fund III, and Fund IV, and obtained ownership interests in the Funds of 20%, 5%, and 15%, respectively. We determined, based upon an analysis under the variable interest entity guidance, that we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the Funds’ economic success. Therefore, we are considered the primary beneficiary and are required under ASC 810 - Consolidation to consolidate the Funds. For further information on the Funds, see Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests.
The assets, liabilities and equity of the Funds as of December 31, 2020, were as follows:
(a)Includes management fees and other expenses payable to the Operating Partnership. These amounts are eliminated in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.
RAYONIER INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
RAYONIER, L.P. AND SUBSIDIARIES
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
(Dollar amounts in thousands unless otherwise stated)
Ferncliff Investors
We also acquired in the Mergers an ownership interest in a real estate joint venture entity. We determined, based upon an analysis under the variable interest entity guidance, that we have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the joint venture investment’s economic success. Therefore, we are considered the primary beneficiary and are required under ASC 810 - Consolidation to consolidate Ferncliff Investors. For further information on Ferncliff Investors, see Note 6 - Noncontrolling Interests.
The assets, liabilities and equity of Ferncliff Investors as of December 31, 2020, were as follows:
28. RELATED PARTY
In January 2020, we entered into an agreement to sell developed lots to Mattamy Jacksonville LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Mattamy Homes, for an aggregate base purchase price of $4.45 million (subject to multiple takedowns over a 2 year period), plus additional consideration as to each lot to the extent the ultimate sales price of each finished home exceeds agreed price thresholds (the “Mattamy Contract”). The Mattamy contract also includes marketing fee revenue based on 1.25% of the sales price of each finished home.
In September 2020, Keith Bass, a member of our Board of Directors, was named the Chief Executive Officer of Mattamy Homes US. Following this development, the Mattamy Contract and the ongoing obligations therein, were reviewed by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee in accordance with established policies and procedures regarding the authorization and approval of transactions with related parties.
The following table demonstrates the impact, gross of tax, of our related party transactions on the Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for the three years ended December 31:
Item 9.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 79e76d86a3048f0b8b09db1aecb6dd95
- Approx. Length: 34524 characters