# Context

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS
Our business faces significant risks and uncertainties. Certain important factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations, any of which could subsequently have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock, and you should carefully consider them. Accordingly, in evaluating our business, we encourage you to consider the following discussion of risk factors in its entirety, in addition to other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other public filings with the SEC. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations in future periods.
Summary of Risk Factors
The risks more fully described below that relate to our business include, but are not limited to, the following important risks:
•we rely on third-party platforms, such as the iOS App Store, Facebook, and Google Play Store, to distribute our games and collect revenues, and such platforms may adversely change their policies;
•a limited number of games generate a majority of our revenues;
•a small percentage of total users generate a majority of our revenues;
•our free-to-play business model, and the value of virtual items sold in our games, is highly dependent on how we manage the game revenues and pricing models;
•our inability to complete acquisitions and/or integrate acquired businesses successfully could limit our growth or disrupt our plans and operations;
•we may be unable to successfully develop new games;
•we operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry;
•we have significant indebtedness and are subject to obligations and restrictive covenants under our debt instruments;
•we are controlled by Yuzhu Shi, whose economic and other interests in our business may differ from yours;
•legal or regulatory restrictions or proceedings could adversely impact our business and limit the growth of our operations;
•our international operations and ownership, including our significant operations in Israel and Belarus and the fact that our controlling stockholder is a Chinese-owned company;
•security breaches or other disruptions could compromise our information or the information of our players and expose us to liability; and
•our inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information could adversely impact our business.
Risks Related to Our Business
We rely on third-party platforms, such as the iOS App Store, Facebook, and Google Play Store, to distribute our games and collect revenues generated on such platforms and rely on third-party payment service providers to collect revenues generated on our own platforms.
Our games are primarily accessed and operated through platforms operated by Apple, Facebook and Google. Substantially all of the virtual items that we sell to paying players are purchased using the payment processing systems of these platforms and, for the year ended December 31, 2020, 81.6% of our revenues were generated through the iOS App Store, Facebook, and Google Play Store. Consequently, our expansion and prospects depend on our continued relationships with these providers, and any other emerging platform providers that are widely adopted by our target players. We are subject to the standard terms and conditions that these platform providers have for application developers, which govern the content, promotion, distribution, operation of games and other applications on their platforms, as well as the terms of the payment processing services provided by the platforms, and which the platform providers can change unilaterally on short or without notice. Our business would be harmed if:
•the platform providers discontinue or limit our access to their platforms;
•governments or private parties, such as internet providers, impose bandwidth restrictions or increase charges or restrict or prohibit access to those platforms;
•the platforms increase the fees they charge us;
•the platforms modify their algorithms, communication channels available to developers, respective terms of service or other policies;
•the platforms decline in popularity;
•the platforms adopt changes or updates to their technology that impede integration with other software systems or otherwise require us to modify our technology or update our games in order to ensure players can continue to access our games and content with ease;
•the platforms elect or are required to change how they label free-to-play games or take payment for in-game purchases;
•the platforms block or limit access to the genres of games that we provide in any jurisdiction;
•the platforms impose restrictions or spending caps or make it more difficult for players to make in-game purchases of virtual items;
•the platforms change how the personal information of players is made available to developers or develop or expand their own competitive offerings; or
•we are unable to comply with the platform providers’ terms of service.
If our platform providers do not perform their obligations in accordance with our platform agreements, we could be adversely impacted. For example, in the past, some of these platform providers have been unavailable for short periods of time, unexpectedly changed their terms or conditions, or experienced issues with their features that permit our players to purchase virtual items. Additionally, we rely on two separate third-party online payment service providers to process any payments generated on games accessed and operated on our own proprietary platforms. If either of these third-party service providers is unable to process payments, even for a short period of time, our business would be harmed. These platforms and our third-party online payment service providers may also experience security breaches or other issues with their functionalities. In addition, if we do not adhere to the terms and conditions of our platform providers, the platform providers may take actions to limit the operations of, suspend or remove our games from the platform, and/or we may be exposed to liability or litigation. For example, in August 2020, Epic Games, Inc., or Epic Games, attempted to bypass Apple and Google’s payment systems for in-game purchases with an update that allowed users to make purchases directly through Epic Games in its game, Fortnite. Apple and Google promptly removed Fortnite from their respective app stores, and Apple filed a lawsuit seeking injunctive relief to block the use of Epic Games’ payment system and seeking monetary damages to recover funds made while the updated version of Fortnite was active.
If any such events described above occur on a short-term or long-term basis, or if these third-party platforms and online payment service providers otherwise experience issues that impact the ability of players to download or access our games, access social features, or make in-game purchases, it would have a material adverse effect on our brands and reputation, as well as our business, financial condition and results of operations.
A limited number of games have generated a majority of our revenues, and we may be unable to offset any declines in revenues from our top games.
Our business is dependent on the success of a limited number of games and on our ability to consistently enhance and improve upon games that achieve significant popularity. Historically, we have depended on such games for a majority of our revenues and we expect that this dependency will continue for the foreseeable future. For example, for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, our top two games by revenue, Slotomania and Bingo Blitz, collectively generated approximately half of our revenues for each period. For a game to remain popular and to retain players, we must constantly enhance, expand and upgrade the game with new features, offers, and content that players find attractive. As a result, each of our games requires significant product development, marketing and other resources to develop, launch and sustain popularity through regular upgrades, expansions and new content, and such costs on average have increased over time. Even with these investments, we may experience sudden declines in the popularity of any of our games and fluctuations in the number of daily average users and monthly average users.
If we fail to attract and retain a significant number of new and existing players to our games or if we experience a reduction in the number of players of our most popular games or any other adverse developments relating to our most popular games occur, our market share and reputation could be harmed and there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
A small percentage of total users have generated a majority of our revenues, and we may be unable to attract new paying or retain existing paying users and maintain their spending levels.
Revenues of free-to-play games typically rely on a small percentage of players who spend moderate or large amounts of money in games to receive special advantages, levels, access and other features, offers, or content. The vast majority of users play for free or only occasionally spend money in games. As a result, compared to all users who play our games in any period, only a small percentage of such users were paying users. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2020, our average Daily Payer Conversion was 2.6%. In addition, a large percentage of our revenues comes from a small subset of these paying users. Because many users do not generate revenues, and each paying user does not generate an equal amount of revenues, it is particularly important for us to retain the small percentage of paying users and to maintain or increase their spending levels. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to retain paying users or that paying users will maintain or increase their spending. It is possible that we could lose more paying users than we gain in the future, which would cause a decrease in the monetization of our games and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We invest in new user acquisition and on monetization strategies to convert users to paying users, retain our existing paying users and maintain or increase the spending levels of our paying users. If our investments on new user acquisition and monetization strategies do not produce the desired results, we may fail to attract, retain or monetize users and may experience a decrease in spending levels of existing paying users, any of which would result in lower revenues for our games and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We believe that the key factors in attracting and retaining paying users include our ability to enhance existing games and game experiences in ways which are specifically appealing to paying users. These abilities are subject to various uncertainties, including but not limited to:
•our ability to provide an enhanced experience for paying users without adversely affecting the gameplay experience for non-paying users;
•our ability to continually anticipate and respond to changing user interests and preferences generally and to changes in the gaming industry;
•our ability to compete successfully against a large and growing number of industry participants with essentially no barriers to entry;
•our ability to hire, integrate and retain skilled personnel;
•our ability to increase penetration in, and enter into new, demographic markets;
•our ability to achieve a positive return on our user acquisition and other marketing investments and to drive organic growth; and
•our ability to minimize and quickly resolve bugs or outages.
Some of our users also depend on our customer support organization to answer questions relating to our games. Our ability to provide high-quality effective customer support is largely dependent on our ability to attract, resource, and retain employees who are not only qualified to support our users, but are also well versed in our games. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality customer support, could harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to sell virtual items within our games to existing and prospective users.
If we are unable to attract and retain users, especially paying users, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We utilize a free-to-play business model, which depends on players making optional in-game purchases, and the value of the virtual items sold in our games is highly dependent on how we manage the game revenues and pricing models.
Our games are available to players for free, and we generate nearly all of our revenues from the sale of virtual items when players make voluntary in-game purchases. For example, in each of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we derived 97.1% and 97.5%, respectively, of our revenues from in-game purchases.
Paying users usually spend money in our games because of the perceived value of the virtual items that we offer for purchase. The perceived value of these virtual items can be impacted by various actions that we take in the games, such as offering discounts, giving away virtual items in promotions or providing easier non-paid means to secure such virtual items. If we fail to manage our game economies properly, players may be less likely to spend money in the games, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Unrelated third parties have developed, and may continue to develop, “cheats” or guides that enable players to advance in our games or result in other types of malfunction, which could reduce the demand for in-game virtual items. In particular, for our games where players play against each other, such as our World Series of Poker game, there is a higher risk that these “cheats” will enable players to obtain unfair advantages over those players who play fairly, and harm the experience of those players. Additionally, these unrelated third parties may attempt to scam our players with fake offers for virtual items or other game benefits. These scams may harm the experience of our players, disrupt the economies of our games and reduce the demand for our virtual items, which may result in increased costs to combat such programs and scams, a loss of revenues from the sale of virtual items and a loss of players. As a result, players may have a negative gaming experience and be less likely to spend money in the games, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our inability to complete acquisitions and integrate any acquired businesses successfully could limit our growth or disrupt our plans and operations.
Historically, a significant portion of our growth has been as a result of our acquisition of complementary studios and games, rather than in-house development, including our acquisition of Wooga GmbH, or Wooga, in 2018 and Supertreat GmbH, or Supertreat, in 2019, and Seriously Holding Corp., or Seriously, in 2019, and we anticipate that acquisitions will continue to be an important source of growth in the near future. Our ability to succeed in implementing our strategy will depend to some degree upon our ability to identify quality games and businesses and complete commercially viable acquisitions. We cannot assure you that acquisition opportunities will be available on acceptable terms or at all, or that we will be able to obtain necessary financing or regulatory approvals to complete potential acquisitions. Our ability to successfully grow through these types of transactions also depends upon our ability to identify, negotiate, complete and integrate suitable target businesses, technologies and products and to obtain any necessary financing, and is subject to numerous risks, including:
•failure to identify acquisition, investment or other strategic alliance opportunities that we deem suitable or available on favorable terms;
•problems integrating acquired businesses, technologies or products, including issues maintaining uniform standards, procedures, controls and policies;
•unanticipated costs associated with acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances;
•adverse impacts on our overall margins;
•diversion of management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our existing business;
•potential loss of key employees of acquired businesses; and
•increased legal and accounting compliance costs.
In addition, the expected cost synergies associated with such acquisitions may not be fully realized in the anticipated amounts or within the contemplated timeframes, which could result in increased costs and have an adverse effect on our prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We would expect to incur incremental costs and capital expenditures related to integration activities. Acquisition transactions may also disrupt our ongoing business, as the integration of acquisitions would require significant time and focus from management and might delay the achievement of our strategic objectives.
If we are unable to identify suitable target businesses, technologies or products, or if we are unable to integrate any acquired businesses, technologies and products effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and we can provide no assurances that we will be able to adequately supplement any such inability to successfully acquire and integrate with organic growth. Also, while we employ several different methodologies to assess potential business opportunities, the businesses we may acquire may not meet or exceed our expectations.
If we fail to develop or acquire new games that achieve broad popularity, we may be unable to attract new players or retain existing players, which could negatively impact our business.
Developing or acquiring new games that achieve broad popularity is vital to our continued growth and success. Our ability to successfully develop or acquire new games and their ability to achieve broad popularity and commercial success depends on a number of factors, including our ability to:
•attract, retain and motivate talented game designers, product managers and engineers;
•identify, acquire or develop, sustain and expand games that are fun, interesting and compelling to play over long periods of time;
•effectively market new games and enhancements to our new and existing players;
•achieve viral organic growth and gain customer interest in our games;
•minimize launch delays and cost overruns on new games and game expansions;
•minimize downtime and other technical difficulties;
•adapt to player preferences;
•expand and enhance games after their initial release;
•partner with mobile platforms;
•maintain a quality social game experience; and
•accurately forecast the timing and expense of our operations.
These and other uncertainties make it difficult to know whether we will succeed in continuing to develop or acquire successful games and launch new games that achieve broad popularity. If we are unable to successfully acquire new games or develop new games in-house, it could have a material effect on our pipeline and negatively affect our growth and results of operations.
We operate in a highly competitive industry with low barriers to entry, and our success depends on our ability to effectively compete.
The mobile gaming industry is a rapidly evolving industry with low barriers to entry, and we expect more companies to enter the industry and a wider range of competing games to be introduced. As a result, we are dependent on our ability to successfully compete against a large and growing number of industry participants. In addition, the market for our games is characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent launches of new games and enhancements to current games, changes in player needs and behavior, disruption by innovative entrants and evolving business models and industry standards. As a result, our industry is constantly changing games and business models in order to adopt and optimize new technologies, increase cost efficiency and adapt to player preferences. Our competitors may adapt to an emerging technology or business model more quickly or effectively, developing products and games or business models that are technologically superior to ours, more appealing to consumers, or both. Potential new competitors could have significant resources for developing, enhancing or acquiring games and gaming companies, and may also be able to incorporate their own strong brands and assets into their games or distribution of their games. We also face competition from a vast number of small companies and individuals who may be successful in creating and launching games and other content for these devices and platforms using relatively limited resources and with relatively limited start-up time or expertise. New game developers enter the gaming market continuously, some of which experience significant success in a short period of time. A significant number of new titles are introduced each day.
In addition, the high ratings of our games on the platforms on which we operate are important as they help drive users to find our games. If the ratings of any of our games decline or if we receive significant negative reviews that result in a decrease in our ratings, our games could be more difficult for players to find or recommend. In addition, we may be subject to negative review campaigns or defamation campaigns intended to harm our ratings. Any such decline may lead to loss of users and revenues, additional advertising and marketing costs, and reputation harm.
Additionally, if our platform providers were to develop competitive offerings, either on their own or in cooperation with one or more competitors, our growth prospects could be negatively impacted. For example, Apple recently developed its own video game subscription service, Apple Arcade, which may compete further with our games. Increased competition and success of other brands, genres, business models and games could result in, among other things, a loss of players, or
negatively impact our ability to acquire new players cost-effectively, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Moreover, current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others, including our current or future business partners or third-party software providers. By doing so, these competitors may increase their scale, their ability to meet the needs of existing or prospective players and compete for similar human resources. If we are unable to compete effectively, successfully and at a reasonable cost against our existing and future competitors, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition would be adversely impacted.
Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or to fund our operations, expose us to interest rate risk, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy, and prevent us from making debt service payments. In addition, we are subject to obligations and restrictive covenants under our debt instruments that may impair our ability to operate or with which we may not be able to maintain compliance.
We are a highly leveraged company. Our indebtedness includes senior secured credit facilities, which we refer to herein as the Credit Facilities, consisting of a $550 million senior secured revolving credit facility, which we refer to herein as the Revolving Credit Facility, and a $2,500 million senior secured first lien term loan, which we refer to herein as the Term Loan. The Credit Facilities were provided pursuant to a credit agreement, which we refer to herein as the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 10, 2019, by and among us, the lenders party thereto and Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and the other parties thereto, as amended. As of December 31, 2020, we had $2,375.0 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding indebtedness, in addition to $350 million available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility at that date. In January 2021, we increased the borrowing capacity of the Revolving Credit Facility from $350 million to $550 million. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we made net principal payments of $125.0 million and paid $182.4 million for interest.
Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for us, including, but not limited to, the following:
•limit our ability to borrow money for our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions, research and development, strategic initiatives or other purposes;
•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, financial covenants and borrowing conditions, could result in an event of default under the agreements governing our indebtedness;
•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and the repayment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available to us for other purposes;
•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our operations or business and the industry in which we operate;
•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are less leveraged and that, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploring;
•increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic industry and competitive conditions;
•restrict us from making strategic acquisitions, engaging in development activities, introducing new technologies, or exploiting business opportunities;
•potentially limit the amount of net interest expense that we and our subsidiaries can use in the future as a deduction against taxable income under applicable tax laws;
•cause us to make non-strategic divestitures;
•limit, along with the financial and other restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, among other things, our ability to borrow additional funds, make investments or dispose of assets;
•limit our ability to repurchase shares and pay cash dividends; and
•expose us to the risk of increased interest rates.
In addition, our Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant applicable to the Revolving Credit Facility thereunder and restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest, including our ability to, among other things:
•incur additional debt under certain circumstances;
•create or incur certain liens or permit them to exist;
•enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions;
•make certain investments and acquisitions;
•consolidate, merge or otherwise transfer, sell or dispose of our assets;
•pay dividends, repurchase stock and make other certain restricted payments; or
•enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates.
Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our indebtedness. In the event of such default, the lenders under our Credit Agreement could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation.
We may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the Credit Agreement. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks described above could intensify. Additionally, the Term Loan matures in December 2024 and the Revolving Credit Facility matures in September 2024. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under our Credit Agreement or from new indebtedness in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay or refinance our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs.
We intend to explore potential opportunities to refinance our Term Loan, although we do not have agreements or commitments for such refinancing at this time. We may not be able to refinance our Term Loan at comparable interest rates, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If such refinancing indebtedness is not available at interest rates comparable to our existing indebtedness our interest expense could materially increase, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations. If we cannot timely refinance our Term Loan, we may have to take actions such as issuing additional equity and reducing, delaying or foregoing capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and investments. We cannot assure you that any such actions, if necessary, could be implemented on commercially reasonable terms or at all.
Our ability to successfully attract in-game advertisers depends on our ability to design an attractive advertising model that retains players.
While the vast majority of our revenues are generated by in-game purchases, a growing portion of our revenues are generated from the sale of in-game advertisements. For example, in each of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we derived 2.9% and 2.5%, respectively, of our revenues from in-game advertising. If we are unable to attract and maintain a sufficient player base or otherwise fail to offer attractive in-game advertising models, advertisers may not be interested in purchasing such advertisements in our games, which could adversely affect our revenues from in-game advertising. Alternatively, if our advertising inventory is unavailable and the demand exceeds the supply, this limits our ability to generate further revenues from in-game advertising, particularly during peak hours and in key geographies. Further, a full inventory may divert advertisers from seeking to obtain advertising inventory from us in the future, and thus deprive us of potential future in-game advertising revenues. This could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and our business, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, if we include in-game advertising in our games that players view as excessive, such advertising may materially detract from players’ gaming experiences, thereby creating player dissatisfaction, which may cause us to lose players and revenues, and negatively affect the in-game experience for players making purchases of virtual items in our games.
If we develop new games that achieve success, it is possible that these games could divert players of our other games without growing the overall size of our network, which could harm our results of operations.
As we develop new games, it is possible that these games could cause players to reduce their playing time and purchases in our other existing games without increasing their overall playing time or purchases. In addition, we also may cross-promote our new games in our other games, which could further encourage players of existing games to divert some of their playing time and spending on existing games. If new games do not grow or generate sufficient additional revenues to offset any declines in purchases from our other games, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected.
Yuzhu Shi controls us through his indirect interest in Playtika Holding UK II Limited and its ownership of our common stock will prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant decisions.
As of December 31, 2020, Yuzhu Shi controls shares representing a majority of our combined voting power through his indirect interest in Playtika Holding UK II Limited, or Playtika Holding UK. As long as Yuzhu Shi continues to control shares representing a majority of our voting power, he will generally be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors (unless supermajority approval of such matter is required by applicable law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation). In the ordinary course of his business activities, Yuzhu Shi may engage in activities where his interests may not be the same as, or may conflict with, the interests of our other stockholders. Even if Yuzhu Shi were to control less than a majority of our voting power, he may be able to influence the outcome of corporate actions so long as he controls a significant portion of our voting power.
Our stockholders are not able to affect the outcome of any stockholder vote while Yuzhu Shi controls the majority of our voting power (or, in the case of removal of directors, two-thirds of our voting power). Due to his ownership and rights under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws, Yuzhu Shi controls, subject to applicable law, the composition of our board of directors, which in turn controls all matters affecting us, including, among other things:
•any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of officers and, in the event of a vacancy on our board of directors, additional or replacement directors;
•any determinations with respect to mergers, business combinations or disposition of assets;
•determination of our management policies;
•determination of the composition of the committees on our board of directors;
•our financing policy;
•our compensation and benefit programs and other human resources policy decisions;
•changes to any other agreements that may adversely affect us;
•the payment of dividends on our common stock; and
•determinations with respect to our tax returns.
In addition, the concentration of Yuzhu Shi’s ownership could also discourage others from making tender offers, which could prevent holders from receiving a premium for their common stock. Because Yuzhu Shi’s interests may differ from ours or from those of our other stockholders, actions that he takes with respect to us, as our controlling stockholder, may not be favorable to us or to you or our other stockholders.
Changes to digital platforms’ rules, including those relating to “loot boxes,” or the potential adoption of regulations or legislation impacting loot boxes, could require us to make changes to some of our games’ economies or design, which could negatively impact the monetization of these games reducing our revenues.
In December 2017, Apple updated its terms of service to require publishers of applications that include “loot boxes” to disclose the odds of receiving each type of item within each loot box to customers prior to purchase. Google similarly updated its terms of service in May 2019. Loot boxes are a commonly used monetization technique in free-to-play mobile games in which a player can acquire a virtual loot box, but the player does not know which virtual item(s) he or she will receive (which may be a common, rare or extremely rare item, and may be a duplicate of an item the player already has in his or her inventory) until the loot box is opened. The player will always receive one or more virtual items when he or she opens the loot box. In the event that Apple, Google, or any of our other platform providers changes its developer terms of service to include more onerous requirements or if any of our platform providers were to prohibit the use of loot boxes in games distributed on its digital platform, we would be required to redesign the economies of the affected games in order to continue distribution on the impacted platforms, which would likely cause a decline in the revenues generated from these games and require us to incur additional costs.
In addition, there are ongoing academic, political and regulatory discussions in the United States, Europe, Australia and other jurisdictions regarding whether certain game mechanics, such as loot boxes, should be subject to a higher level or different type of regulation than other game genres or mechanics to protect consumers, in particular minors and persons susceptible to addiction, and, if so, what such regulation should include. Additionally, loot box game mechanics have been the subject of
increased public discussion - for example, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, held a public workshop on loot boxes in August 2019, at least one bill has been introduced in the U.S. Senate that would regulate loot boxes in games marketed toward players under the age of 18, the United Kingdom’s Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport announced in June 2020 it will launch a call for evidence into the impact of loot boxes on in-game spending and gambling-like behavior l in connection with the UK government’s review of the 2005 Gambling Act (the principle gambling regulation in the United Kingdom), and politicians have cited loot boxes as an example of recent technology innovation where government regulation is needed. In October 2020, a Netherlands district administrative court upheld an administrative order by the Dutch gambling authority demanding that Electronic Arts remove certain loots boxes from one of its games because they violated Dutch gambling laws and recommended a maximum fine of 10 million euros for non-compliance with the administrative order. For the first time, the Dutch district administrative court ruled that virtual items can constitute a prize for purposes of gambling legislation. While no other court has adopted a similar definition of prize and there has been opposition to the idea that virtual items can be prizes under gambling laws from the European Parliament and others, it is possible that other courts or regulatory agencies will adopt similarly broad definitions of prize. Additionally, after being restricted in Belgium and the Netherlands, the United Kingdom House of Lords has recently issued a report recommending that loot boxes be regulated within the remit of gambling legislation and regulation. See “Business-Government Regulation.”
In some of our games, certain mechanics may be deemed to be loot boxes. New regulations by the FTC, U.S. states or other international jurisdictions, which may vary significantly across jurisdictions and which we may be required to comply with, could require that these game mechanics be modified or removed from games, increase the costs of operating our games due to disclosure or other regulatory requirements, impact player engagement and monetization, or otherwise harm our business performance. It is difficult to predict how existing or new laws may be applied to these or similar game mechanics. If we become liable under these laws or regulations, we could be directly harmed, and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to modify our games, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations.
Legal or regulatory restrictions could adversely impact our business and limit the growth of our operations.
There is significant opposition in some jurisdictions to social gaming, including social casino games. In September 2018, the World Health Organization added “gaming disorder” to the International Classification of Diseases, defining the disorder as a pattern of behavior characterized by impaired control over gaming and an increase in the priority of gaming over other interests and daily activities. Additionally, the public has become increasingly concerned with the amount of time spent using phones, tablets and computers per day, and these concerns have increased as people spend more time at home and on their devices over the course of the stay-at-home orders caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Some states or countries have anti-gaming groups that specifically target social casino games. Such opposition could lead these jurisdictions to adopt legislation or impose a regulatory framework to govern interactive social gaming or social casino games specifically. These could result in a prohibition on interactive social gaming or social casino games altogether, restrict our ability to advertise our games, or substantially increase our costs to comply with these regulations, all of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing, scope or terms of any such legislation or regulation or the extent to which they may affect our business.
In a recent case, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit decided that a social casino game produced by one of our competitors should be considered illegal gambling under Washington state law. Similar lawsuits have been filed against other defendants, including us. For example, in April 2018, a putative class action lawsuit was filed in federal district court alleging substantially the same causes of action against our social casino games. See “-Legal proceedings may materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition” and “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.”
In September 2018, sixteen gambling regulators signed a declaration expressing concern over the blurring of lines between gambling and video game products, including social casino gaming. The regulators committed to work together to analyze the characteristics of video games and social gaming, and to engage in an informed dialogue with the video game and social gaming industries to ensure the appropriate and efficient implementation of applicable laws and regulations. The regulators also indicated they would work closely with their consumer protection enforcement agencies. In May 2019, the regulators
presented their conclusions and encouraged national consumer protection authorities to continue to be involved in the debate over the blurring of lines between gambling and video game products, while recognizing that ultimately whether these activities trigger the implementation of gambling regulation would depend on each nation’s gambling definition. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing, scope or terms of any actions taken as a result of the declaration, the gambling regulators’ resulting conclusions or any future declarations.
Consumer protection concerns regarding games such as ours have been raised in the past and may again be raised in the future. These concerns include: (i) whether social casino games may be shown to serve as a gateway for adolescents to real money gambling; (ii) methods to limit the ability of children to make in-game purchases, and (iii) a concern that mobile game companies are using big data and advanced technology to predict and target “vulnerable” users who may spend significant time and money on mobile games in lieu of other activities. Such concerns could lead to increased scrutiny over the manner in which our games are designed, developed, distributed and presented. We cannot predict the likelihood, timing or scope of any concern reaching a level that will impact our business, or whether we would suffer any adverse impacts to our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
Legal proceedings may materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
We have been party to, are currently party to, and in the future may become subject to additional legal proceedings in the operation of our business, including, but not limited to, with respect to consumer protection, gambling-related matters, employee matters, alleged service and system malfunctions, alleged intellectual property infringement and claims relating to our contracts, licenses and strategic investments.
For example, in April 2018, a putative class action lawsuit, Sean Wilson, et al. v. Playtika LTD, Playtika Holding Corp. and Caesars Interactive Entertainment, Inc., was filed against us in federal district court directed against certain of our social casino games, including Caesars Slots, Slotomania, House of Fun and Vegas Downtown Slots. The plaintiff alleged that our social casino games violate Washington State gambling laws and consumer protection laws. In August 2020, we entered into a settlement agreement, which was approved by the court in February 2021, to settle the Sean Wilson litigation. In addition, in December 2016, both a trademark infringement lawsuit was filed in Canadian court by Enigmatus, s.r.o. against Playtika Ltd., our subsidiary, and CIE regarding our use of the Slotomania trademarks, and a copyright lawsuit was filed against Wooga in a German court by a former freelance writer for additional remuneration. In October 2020, a patent infringement claim, NEXRF Corp. v. Playtika Ltd., Playtika Holding Corp. and Caesars Interactive Entertainment LLC, was filed against Playtika Holding Corp., Playtika Ltd., our subsidiary, and CIE in U.S. District Court, District of Nevada. The plaintiff alleges that we and CIE are infringing certain patents related to plaintiff’s games and is seeking monetary damages. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.”
Furthermore, our games may be implicated in lawsuits where we are not the named defendants. For example, in October 2020 and January 2021 plaintiffs in several U.S. states sued Apple and/or Google alleging that the platforms violated state gambling laws by allowing the plaintiffs to download and play social casino games, including certain of our social casino games. These lawsuits, or similar suits in the future, could cause Google, Apple, or other third-party platform providers to deny our social casino games access to their platforms or the platforms could seek to pass on liability, including defense costs, for these suits to us under the indemnity provisions in our agreements with such platforms, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition.
Additional legal proceedings targeting our games and claiming violations of state or federal laws could occur, based on the unique and particular laws of each jurisdiction, particularly as litigation claims and regulations continue to evolve. We cannot predict the outcome of any legal proceedings to which we may be a party, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
We rely on a limited number of geographies for a significant portion of our revenues.
Although we have players across the globe, we derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of countries and are dependent on access to those markets. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2020, 70.4% of our revenues were derived from users located in the United States and 95.9% from users located in the United States, Canada,
Europe and Australia. Our ability to retain paying players depends on our success in these geographies, and if we were to lose access to these markets or experience a decline in players in these geographies for any reason, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
The recent COVID-19 pandemic and similar health epidemics, contagious disease outbreaks and public perception thereof, could significantly disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition.
The recent COVID-19 pandemic, epidemics, medical emergencies and other public health crises outside of our control could have a negative impact on our business. Large-scale medical emergencies can take many forms and can cause widespread illness and death. For example, in December 2019, a strain of coronavirus surfaced in Wuhan, China, and although there are multiple vaccines approved in various jurisdictions for treatment, the demand for the vaccines currently far exceeds the supply in many jurisdictions in which we operate. Although the full extent of the impact from the COVID-19 pandemic on our business is unknown at this time, it could affect the health of our employees, or otherwise impact the productivity of our employees, third-party organizations with which we partner, or regulatory agencies we rely on, which may prevent us from delivering content in a timely manner or otherwise executing our business strategies. We have followed guidance by the U.S. and Israeli governments and the other local governments in which we operate to protect our employees and our operations during the pandemic and have implemented a remote environment for certain of our employees, and, as a result, may experience inefficiencies in our employees’ ability to collaborate. We have also experienced difficulty in our efforts to recruit and hire qualified personnel during this time. The COVID-19 pandemic could also affect the health of our consumers, which may affect sales of our virtual items in our games or result in lower-than-expected attendance at, or the cancellation of, events hosted by us (as has already occurred for a number of scheduled events). In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused an economic recession, high unemployment rates and other disruptions, both in the United States and the rest of the world. Any of these impacts, including the prolonged continuation of these impacts, could adversely affect our business.
We cannot predict the other potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business or operations, and there is no guarantee that any near-term trends in our results of operations will continue, particularly if the COVID-19 pandemic and the adverse consequences thereof continue for a long period of time. A third wave of infections, a continuation of the current environment, or any further adverse impacts caused by the COVID-19 pandemic could further deteriorate employment rates and the economy, detrimentally affecting our consumer base and divert player discretionary income to other uses, including for essential items. These events could adversely impact our cash flows, results of operations and financial conditions and heighten many of the other risks described in these “Risk Factors.” In addition, we could experience a decrease in user activity or spending after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, which could adversely impact our cash flows, operating results, and financial condition.
If general economic conditions decline, demand for our games could decline. In addition, our business is vulnerable to changing economic conditions and to other factors that adversely affect the gaming industry, which could negatively impact our business.
In-game purchases involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of games and services like ours, during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. As a result, our games may be sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles. A reduction or shift in domestic or international consumer spending could result in an increase in our marketing and promotional expenses, in an effort to offset that reduction, and could negatively impact our business. Discretionary spending on entertainment activities could further decline for reasons beyond our control, such as natural disasters, acts of war, pandemics, terrorism, transportation disruptions or the results of adverse weather conditions. Additionally, disposable income available for discretionary spending may be reduced by unemployment, higher housing, energy, interest, or other costs, or where the actual or perceived wealth of customers has decreased because of circumstances such as lower residential real estate values, increased foreclosure rates, inflation, increased tax rates, or other economic disruptions. Any prolonged or significant decrease in consumer spending on entertainment activities could result in reduced play levels in decreased spending on our games, and could adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power losses, telecommunications failures, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events.
We have in the past and may continue to experience disruption as a result of catastrophic events. For example, we previously maintained an office in Crimea, but were forced to close and relocate our personnel as a result of Crimea’s annexation by Russia in 2014. Additionally, our primary offices are located in Israel and we have a large office in Belarus, and are therefore subject to a heightened risk of military and political instability. For more information on risks related to our operations in Israel, see “-We have offices and other significant operations located in Israel, and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel.” For more information on risks related to our operations in Belarus, see “-Our operations may be adversely affected by ongoing developments in Belarus, Ukraine or Romania.”
In the occurrence of a catastrophic event, including a global pandemic like the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in application development, lengthy interruptions in our services, breaches of data security and loss of critical data, such as player, customer and billing data as well as intellectual property rights, software versions or other relevant data regarding operations, and there can be no assurances that our insurance policies will be sufficient to compensate us for any resulting losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We primarily rely on skilled employees with creative and technical backgrounds. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our failure to attract and retain other highly qualified employees in the future, could significantly harm our business.
We primarily rely on our highly skilled, technically trained and creative employees to develop new technologies and create innovative games. Such employees, particularly game designers, engineers and project managers with desirable skill sets are in high demand, and we devote significant resources to identifying, hiring, training, successfully integrating and retaining these employees. We have historically hired a number of key personnel through acquisitions, and as competition with several other game companies increases, we may incur significant expenses in continuing this practice. The loss of employees or the inability to hire additional skilled employees as necessary could result in significant disruptions to our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be time-consuming and expensive and cause additional disruptions to our business.
We are highly dependent on the continued services and performance of our key personnel, including, in particular Robert Antokol, our co-founder, Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson of our board of directors, and our other executive officers and senior management team. In particular, Mr. Antokol oversees our company and provides leadership for our growth and business strategy. Moreover, our success is highly dependent on the abilities of Mr. Antokol’s decision making process with regards to the day-to-day and ongoing needs of our business, as well as his understanding of our company as the co-founder of Playtika. Although we have entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Antokol, the agreement has no specific duration and he can terminate his employment at any time, subject to certain agreed notice periods and post-termination restrictive covenants. We do not maintain key-man insurance for Mr. Antokol or any other executive officer or member of our senior management team.
In addition, our games are created, developed, enhanced and supported in our in-house game studios. The loss of key game studio personnel, including members of management as well as key engineering, game development, artists, product, marketing and sales personnel, could disrupt our current games, delay new game development or game enhancements, and decrease player retention, which would have an adverse effect on our business.
As we continue to grow, we cannot guarantee we will continue to attract the personnel we need to maintain our competitive position. In particular, we expect to face significant competition from other companies in hiring such personnel as well as recruiting well-qualified staff in multiple international jurisdictions. Furthermore, our competitors may lure away our existing personnel by offering them employment terms that our personnel view as more favorable. As we mature, the incentives to attract, retain and motivate our staff provided by our equity awards or by future arrangements, such as through cash bonuses, may not be as effective as in the past. If we do not succeed in attracting, hiring and integrating excellent personnel, or retaining and motivating existing personnel, we may be unable to grow effectively.
We track certain performance metrics with internal and third-party tools and do not independently verify such metrics. Certain of our performance metrics are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in such metrics may harm our reputation and adversely affect our business.
We track certain performance metrics, including the number of active and paying players of our games using a combination of internal and third-party analytics tools, including such tools provided by Apple, Facebook and Google. Our performance metrics tools have a number of limitations (including limitations placed on third-party tools, which are subject to change unilaterally by the relevant third parties) and our methodologies for tracking these metrics or access to these metrics may change over time, which could result in unexpected changes to our metrics, including the metrics we report. If the internal or external tools we use to track these metrics under-count or over-count performance or contain technical errors, the data we report may not be accurate, and we may not be able to detect such inaccuracies, particularly with respect to third-party analytics tools. In addition, limitations or errors with respect to how we measure data (or how third parties present that data to us) may affect our understanding of certain details of our business, which could affect our long-term strategies. We also may not have access to comparable quality data for games we acquire with respect to periods before integration, which may impact our ability to rely on such data. Furthermore, such limitations or errors could cause players, analysts or business partners to view our performance metrics as unreliable or inaccurate. If our performance metrics are not accurate representations of our business, player base or traffic levels, if we discover material inaccuracies in our metrics or if the metrics we rely on to track our performance do not provide an accurate measurement of our business or otherwise change, our reputation may be harmed and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected.
Our business depends on our ability to collect and use data to deliver relevant content and advertisements, and any limitation on the collection and use of this data could cause us to lose revenues.
When our players use our games, we may collect both personally identifiable and non-personally identifiable data about the player. Often, we use some of this data to provide a better experience for the player by delivering relevant content and advertisements. Our players may decide not to allow us to collect some or all of this data or may limit our use of this data. Any limitation on our ability to collect data about players and game interactions would likely make it more difficult for us to deliver targeted content and advertisements to our players. Interruptions, failures or defects in our data collection, mining, analysis and storage systems, as well as privacy concerns and regulatory restrictions regarding the collection of data, could also limit our ability to aggregate and analyze player data. If that happens, we may not be able to successfully adapt to player preferences to improve and enhance our games, retain existing players and maintain the popularity of our games, which could cause our business, financial condition, or results of operations to suffer.
Additionally, Internet-connected devices and operating systems controlled by third parties increasingly contain features that allow device users to disable functionality that allows for the delivery of advertising on their devices, including through Apple’s Identifier for Advertising, or IDFA, or Google’s Advertising ID, or AAID, for Android devices. Device and browser manufacturers may include or expand these features as part of their standard device specifications. For example, when Apple announced that UDID, a standard device identifier used in some applications, was being superseded and would no longer be supported, application developers were required to update their apps to utilize alternative device identifiers such as universally unique identifier, or, more recently, IDFA, which simplifies the process for Apple users to opt out of behavioral targeting. If players elect to utilize the opt-out mechanisms in greater numbers, our ability to deliver effective advertisements would suffer, which could adversely affect our revenues from in-game advertising.
We compete with other forms of leisure activities, and a failure to successfully compete with such activities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.
We face competition for leisure time, attention and discretionary spending of our players. Other forms of entertainment, such as offline, traditional online, personal computer and console games, television, movies, sports and the internet, together represent much larger or more well-established markets and may be perceived by our players to offer greater variety, affordability, interactivity and enjoyment. Consumer tastes and preferences for leisure time activities are also subject to sudden or unpredictable change on account of new innovations, developments or product launches. If consumers do not find our games to be compelling or if other existing or new leisure time activities are perceived by our players to offer greater variety, affordability, interactivity and overall enjoyment, our business could be materially and adversely affected.
Our revenue growth rate and financial performance in recent periods may not be indicative of future performance, and our revenue growth rates may decline in the future compared to prior periods.
We have experienced rapid revenue growth in recent periods, with revenue of $2,371.5 million, $1,887.6 million and $1,490.7 million, for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. As we continue to grow our business, our revenue growth rates may decline compared to prior fiscal years due to a number of reasons, which may include more challenging comparisons to prior periods, a decrease in the growth of our overall market or market saturation, slowing demand for our games, our inability to continue to acquire games or game studios, and our inability to capitalize on growth opportunities. In addition, our growth rates may experience increased volatility due to global societal and economic disruption, such as those related to the COVID-19 pandemic and related government responses thereto.
Our business may suffer if we do not successfully manage our current and potential future growth.
We have grown significantly in recent years and we intend to continue to expand the scope of the games we provide. Our revenues increased to $2,371.5 million in 2020 from $1,887.6 million in 2019 and $1,490.7 million in 2018. Our anticipated future growth, particularly to the extent that we experience rapid growth, will likely place significant demands on our management and operations. Our success in managing our growth will depend, to a significant degree, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of senior management to operate effectively, and on our ability to improve and develop our financial and management information systems, controls and procedures. In addition, we will likely have to successfully adapt our existing systems and introduce new systems, expand, train and manage our employees and improve and expand our marketing capabilities. Further, we have grown our business in part by acquiring and integrating complementary businesses and our continued growth will depend to some degree on our continuing ability to find additional commercially viable strategic acquisitions or expanding our internal development.
If we are unable to properly and prudently manage our operations as and to the extent they continue to grow, or if the quality of our games deteriorates due to mismanagement, our brand name and reputation could be severely harmed, and our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected.
If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud; in that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock.
We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. We believe that any disclosure controls and procedures, no matter how well-conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by an unauthorized override of the controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in our control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting and have our independent registered public accounting firm attest to our evaluation beginning with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021. We are in the process of preparing and implementing an internal plan of action for compliance with Section 404 and strengthening and testing our system of internal controls to provide the basis for our report. The process of implementing our internal controls and complying with Section 404 will be expensive and time consuming and will require significant attention of management. We cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we conclude, and our independent registered public accounting firm concurs, that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our results of operations or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we or our independent registered public accounting firm
discover a material weakness in our internal control, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the market’s confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, a delay in compliance with Section 404 could subject us to a variety of administrative sanctions, including ineligibility for short form resale registration, action by the SEC, the suspension or delisting of our common stock from and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock, which would further reduce our stock price and could harm our business.
We may require additional capital to meet our financial obligations and support business growth, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all.
Based on our current plans and market conditions, we believe that cash flows generated from our operations, the proceeds from our January 2021 initial public offering and borrowing capacity under our Revolving Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy our anticipated cash requirements in the ordinary course of business for the foreseeable future. However, we intend to continue to make significant investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new games and features or enhance our existing games, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings in addition to our Revolving Credit Facility to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could include restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed.
Our insurance may not provide adequate levels of coverage against claims.
We believe that we maintain insurance customary for businesses of our size and type. However, there are types of losses we may incur that cannot be insured against or that we believe are not economically reasonable to insure. Moreover, any loss incurred could exceed policy limits and policy payments made to us may not be made on a timely basis. Such losses could adversely affect our business prospects, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
Changes in tax laws or tax rulings, or the examination of our tax positions, could materially affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. Our existing corporate structure and intercompany arrangements have been implemented in a manner we believe is in compliance with current prevailing tax laws. However, the tax benefits that we intend to eventually take advantage of could be undermined due to changing tax laws, both in the United States and in other applicable jurisdictions, including Israel. In addition, the taxing authorities in the United States and other jurisdictions where we do business regularly examine income and other tax returns and we expect that they may examine our income and other tax returns. The ultimate outcome of these examinations cannot be predicted with certainty.
Certain tax benefits that are available to us require us to continue to meet various conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which could increase our costs and taxes.
We believe that our Israeli subsidiaries are eligible for certain tax benefits provided to a “Preferred Technology Enterprise” under the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, or the Investment Law, including, inter alia, a reduced corporate tax rate on Israeli preferred technology taxable income, as defined in the Investment Law and its regulations. In order to remain eligible for the tax benefits for a Preferred Technology Enterprise our Israeli subsidiaries must continue to meet certain conditions stipulated in the Investment Law and its regulations, as amended. If our Israeli subsidiaries were to fail to continue to meet such conditions, then our Israeli subsidiaries would not be eligible for such tax benefits and our Israeli taxable income would be subject to regular Israeli corporate tax rates. Additionally, if our Israeli
subsidiaries increase their activities outside of Israel through acquisitions, their expanded activities might not be eligible for inclusion in future Israeli tax benefit programs.
We could be required to collect additional sales taxes or be subject to other tax liabilities on past sales.
One or more U.S. states or countries may seek to impose incremental or new sales, value added taxes or use or other tax collection obligations on us. While we generally are not responsible for taxes generated on games accessed and operated through third-party platforms, we are responsible for collecting and remitting applicable sales, value added or other similar taxes for revenue generated on games accessed and operated on our own platforms. Historically, we paid taxes on revenue generated from games accessed on our own platforms in U.S. states where we had a sufficient physical presence or “nexus” based on the location of our U.S. offices and servers. However, there is uncertainty as to what constitutes sufficient physical presence or nexus for a U.S. state to levy taxes, fees and surcharges for sales made over the internet. Furthermore, an increasing number of U.S. states have considered or adopted laws that attempt to impose tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies. This is also the case in respect of the European Union, where value added taxes may be imposed on non-European Union companies making digital sales to consumers within the European Union. Additionally, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled in South Dakota v. Wayfair, Inc. et al, or Wayfair, that online sellers can be required to collect sales and use tax despite not having a physical presence in the state of the customer. In response to Wayfair, or otherwise, U.S. states or local governments may adopt, or begin to enforce, laws requiring us to calculate, collect and remit taxes on sales in their jurisdictions. As a result of the above, we are in the process of evaluating whether our activities give rise to sales, use, value added taxes and any other taxes in additional states or jurisdictions in which we historically have not registered to collect and remit taxes. A successful assertion by one or more U.S. states or other countries or jurisdictions requiring us to collect taxes where we presently do not do so, or to collect more taxes in a jurisdiction in which we currently collect some taxes, could result in substantial liabilities, including taxes on past sales, as well as interest and penalties, and could create significant administrative burdens for us or otherwise harm our business.
If certain U.S. federal income tax rules under Section 7874 of the Internal Revenue Code apply to us, such rules could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences.
Generally, Section 7874 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, will apply if (i) a foreign corporation (or pursuant to a plan or a series of related transactions, two or more foreign corporations in the aggregate) directly or indirectly acquires, within the meaning of Section 7874 of the Code, substantially all of the properties of a U.S. corporation, (ii) the former stockholders of the acquired U.S. corporation hold, by vote or value, at least 60% of the shares of the foreign acquiring corporation after the acquisition by reason of holding shares in the United States acquired corporation and (iii) the foreign corporation’s “expanded affiliated group” does not have substantial business activities in the foreign corporation’s country of tax residency relative to such expanded affiliated group’s worldwide activities. If Section 7874 of the Code were to apply to such acquired U.S. corporation, then it would be treated as an “expatriated entity” for the purposes of these rules. As a consequence, Section 7874 of the Code would limit the ability of such acquired U.S. corporation and its U.S. affiliates to use U.S. federal income tax attributes (including net operating losses and certain tax credits) to offset U.S. taxable income resulting from certain transactions, as well as result in certain other potentially adverse tax consequences (including the potential increase in the transition tax on overseas earnings imposed as a result of U.S. tax reform in 2017).
We and our affiliates have engaged in certain transactions involving transfers of property and shares to foreign corporations prior to our initial public offering in January 2021, or the Pre-IPO Transactions. Depending upon various factual and legal issues concerning the Pre-IPO Transactions and our initial public offering, as well as subsequent sales of shares by our existing stockholders, Section 7874 of the Code may apply to cause us to be an “expatriated entity” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as an expatriated entity, there could be significant adverse tax consequences to us. The rules under Section 7874 of the Code are complex and subject to detailed regulations (the application of which is uncertain in various respects and would be impacted by changes in such U.S. Treasury regulations with possible retroactive effect) and factual uncertainties. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert that Section 7874 of the Code applies to us or that such assertion would not be sustained by a court.
Tax law or tax rate changes could affect our effective tax rate and future profitability
Our effective tax rate for 2020 was 52.6% compared with 33.8% for 2019. In general, changes in applicable U.S. federal and state & foreign tax laws and regulations, or their interpretation and application, including the possibility of retroactive effect, could affect our tax expense. In addition, and in response to significant market volatility and disruptions to business operations resulting from the global spread of COVID-19, taxing authorities in many jurisdictions in which we operate may propose changes to their tax laws and regulations. These potential changes could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, long-term tax planning and financial results.
We are a “controlled company” under the corporate governance rules of Nasdaq and, as a result, will qualify for, and may rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. If we rely on the exemptions available to a “controlled company” you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such corporate governance requirements.
Our controlling stockholder, Playtika Holding UK, which is, in turn, indirectly controlled by Yuzhu Shi, controls a majority of our outstanding common stock. As a result, we are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the Nasdaq rules. Under these rules, a listed company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including:
•the requirement that a majority of its board of directors consist of independent directors;
•the requirement that its director nominations be made, or recommended to the full board of directors, by its independent directors or by a nominations committee that is comprised entirely of independent directors and that it adopts a written charter or board resolution addressing the nominations process; and
•the requirement that it have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities.
While we do not currently rely on the exemptions available to a “controlled company,” we may elect to rely on these exemptions in the future. As a result, our board of directors may not have a majority of independent directors, our compensation committee may not consist entirely of independent directors and/or our directors may not be nominated or selected by independent directors. Accordingly, if we elect to rely on these exemptions in the future, you will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the Nasdaq rules.
Risks Related to Our International Operations and Ownership
We face added business, political, regulatory, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our operations and distribution in a variety of countries, any of which could increase our costs and hinder our growth.
A significant portion of our operations are outside of the United States, including our principal executive offices in Israel, and we generate a significant portion of our revenues from operations outside of the United States. For each of the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we derived approximately 29.6% and 30.3%, respectively, of our revenues from sales to players outside of the United States. Our operations in foreign jurisdictions may subject us to additional risks customarily associated with such operations, including:
•challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences;
•the complexity of foreign laws, regulations and markets;
•the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions;
•higher costs associated with doing business internationally;
•the effect of currency exchange rate fluctuations;
•difficulties in staffing and managing international operations;
•the impact of foreign labor laws and disputes;
•the ability to attract and retain key personnel in foreign jurisdictions;
•protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in some countries;
•the economic, tax and regulatory policies of local governments;
•compliance with applicable anti-money laundering, anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other anti-corruption laws that generally prohibit U.S. persons and companies and their agents from offering, promising, authorizing or making improper payments to foreign government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business;
•limitations on and costs related to the repatriation of funds;
•compliance with applicable sanctions regimes regarding dealings with certain persons or countries;
•restrictions on the export or import of technology;
•trade and tariff restrictions;
•variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes and other market barriers; and
•difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the United States.
Certain of these laws also contain provisions that require accurate record keeping and further require companies to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Although we have policies and controls in place that are designed to ensure compliance with these laws, if those controls are ineffective or an employee or intermediary fails to comply with the applicable regulations, we may be subject to criminal and civil sanctions and other penalties. Any such violation could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, as we operate and sell internationally, we are subject to the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by the United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While we have attempted to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees, consultants and agents, violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which would negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.
Further, our ability to expand successfully in foreign jurisdictions involves other risks, including difficulties in integrating foreign operations, risks associated with entering jurisdictions in which we may have little experience and the day-to-day management of a growing and increasingly geographically diverse company. We may not realize the operating efficiencies, competitive advantages or financial results that we anticipate from our investments in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our international business operations could be interrupted and negatively affected by terrorist activity, political unrest or other economic or political uncertainties. Moreover, foreign jurisdictions could impose tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other similar restrictions on our international sales.
Additionally, while we maintain offices in the United States, most of our senior management and employees are located in our international offices, including our offices in Israel, Belarus, Ukraine and Romania, which subject us to added business, political and economic risks. As of December 31, 2020, we had operations in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belarus, Canada, Finland, Germany, India, Israel, Romania, Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Kingdom and the United States. We have in the past and may continue to experience disruption as a result of catastrophic events in the countries in which we operate. For example, we previously maintained a small office in Crimea, but were forced to close and relocate our personnel as a result of Crimea’s annexation by Russia in 2014. For more information on risks related to our operations in Israel, see “-We have offices and other significant operations located in Israel, and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel.” For more information on risks related to our operations in Belarus, Ukraine and Romania, see “-Our operations may be adversely affected by ongoing developments in Belarus, Ukraine or Romania.”
We have offices and other significant operations located in Israel, and, therefore, our results may be adversely affected by political, economic and military instability in Israel.
While we maintain offices in the United States, we maintain offices and conduct significant operations in Israel, and most of our senior management is based in Israel. In addition, many of our employees and officers are residents of Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our business. Any hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its neighboring countries, as well as terrorist acts committed within Israel by hostile elements. In addition, recent political uprisings and conflicts in various countries in the Middle East, including Syria, are affecting the political stability of those countries. In addition, the tensions between Israel and Iran and certain extremist groups in the region may escalate in the future and turn violent, which could affect the Israeli economy in general and us in particular. Any armed conflicts,
terrorist activities or political instability in the region could adversely affect business conditions, could harm our results of operations and could make it more difficult for us to raise capital. Parties with whom we do business may sometimes decline to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary in order to meet our business partners face to face. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in such agreements.
Our commercial insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of an event associated with the security situation in the Middle East, with limited exceptions. Although the Israeli government has in the past covered the reinstatement value of certain damages that were caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or, if maintained, will be sufficient to compensate us fully for damages incurred. Any losses or damages incurred by us could cause a significant disruption in our employees’ lives and possibly put their lives at risk, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions generally and could harm our results of operations.
Further, in the past, the State of Israel and Israeli companies have been subjected to economic boycotts. Several countries still restrict business with the State of Israel and with Israeli companies. These restrictive laws and policies may have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial conditions or the expansion of our business. A campaign of boycotts, divestment and sanctions has been undertaken against Israel, which could also adversely impact our business.
It may be difficult to enforce a judgment of a U.S. court against us and our officers and directors, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or to serve process on our officers and directors.
We maintain offices in Israel and many of our employees and officers and directors are residents of Israel. Certain of our assets and the assets of these persons are located in Israel. Additionally, three of our five directors are residents of China. Therefore, a judgment obtained against us, or any of these persons, including a judgment based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws, may not be collectible in the United States and may not necessarily be enforced by an Israeli or Chinese court. It also may be difficult to affect service of process on these persons in the United States or to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel or China, as applicable. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to initiate an action with respect to U.S. securities laws in Israel, as applicable. Israeli or Chinese courts may refuse to hear a claim based on an alleged violation of U.S. securities laws reasoning that Israel or China, as applicable, is not the most appropriate forum in which to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli or Chinese court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli or Chinese law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proven as a fact by expert witnesses, which can be a time consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli or Chinese law, as applicable. There is little binding case law in Israel that addresses the matters described above. As a result of the difficulty associated with enforcing a judgment against us in Israel, you may not be able to collect any damages awarded by either a U.S. or foreign court.
We may not be able to enforce covenants not-to-compete under current Israeli and California law, which might result in added competition for our products.
We have non-competition agreements or provisions with most of our Israeli employees and Israeli executive officers, including Robert Antokol, our Chief Executive Officer and Chairperson of our board of directors. These agreements or provisions are governed by Israeli law and prohibit our employees from competing with us or working for our competitors, generally during, and for up to one year after termination of, their employment with us. However, Israeli courts are reluctant to enforce non-compete undertakings of former employees and tend, if at all, to enforce those provisions for only relatively brief periods of time or in restricted geographical areas. In addition, Israeli courts typically require the presence of additional circumstances, such as a demonstration of an employer’s legitimate interest which was damaged; breach of fiduciary duties, loyalty and acting not in good faith; a payment of a special consideration for employee’s non-compete obligation; material concern for disclosing employer’s trade secrets; or a demonstration that an employee has unique value to the employer specific to that employer’s business, before enforcing a non-competition undertaking against such employee.
In addition, post-employment restrictive covenants, barring certain exceptions, are not enforceable in certain U.S. states in which we operate, including California, which may create similar risks of competition. Two of our executive officers, including our President and Chief Financial Officer, are located in California. Although we have non-competition agreements with such officers, they are unlikely to be enforced by California courts or under California law.
We are subject to certain employee severance obligations, which may result in an increase in our expenditures.
Under Israel’s Severance Pay law, 5723-1963, or the Severance Pay Law, employers are required to make severance payments to dismissed employees and employees leaving employment in certain other circumstances, on the basis of their latest monthly salary for each year of service or a portion thereof. These statutory severance obligations are generally more extensive than under U.S. law, and this obligation may result in significant additional expenses for us, including accrued expenses, if we elect to terminate employees in Israel.
The Company and its Israeli subsidiaries have elected to include their Israeli employees under Section 14 of the Severance Pay Law, or Section 14. Section 14 entitles these employees to monthly deposits with third-party insurance companies and pension funds, at a rate of 8.33% of their monthly salary. These payments release the Company from future obligations under the Israeli Severance Pay Law. Accordingly, any liability for severance pay due to these employees, and the deposits under Section 14 are not recorded as an asset in the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
Our operations may be disrupted as a result of the obligation of management or key personnel to perform military service.
Our employees and consultants in Israel, including members of our senior management, may be obligated to perform one month, and in some cases longer periods, of annual military reserve duty until they reach the age of 40 (or older, for citizens who hold certain positions in the Israeli armed forces reserves) and, in the event of a military conflict, may be called to active duty. In response to increases in terrorist activity, there have been periods of significant call-ups of military reservists. It is possible that there will be similar large-scale military reserve duty call-ups in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence of a significant number of our officers, directors, employees and consultants. Such disruption could adversely affect our business and operations in a material manner.
Our operations may be adversely affected by ongoing developments in Belarus, Ukraine or Romania.
We have significant operations in central and eastern Europe. Since the early 1990s, Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Romania and other central and eastern European countries have sought to transform from one-party states with a centrally planned economy to democracies with a market economy to various degrees. Despite various reforms, the political systems of many of these countries remain vulnerable and unstable. In addition, the political and economic situation in these countries is negatively affected by the global economic crisis and the ongoing economic recession in some parts of the world due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Belarus
Belarus has recently experienced mass protests throughout the country following the August 2020 election in response to allegations against the government of corruption and election fraud. Despite threats from Belarusian authorities of charges and arrests against demonstrators, protestors have continued to demonstrate. In August 2020, Internet access was restricted to Belarusian citizens, which many citizens and experts have attributed to the government, despite its claim that the disruption was caused by cybersecurity attacks. We have a significant research and development center in Belarus and, accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected by economic, political and legal developments in Belarus.
Ukraine
The political and civil situation in Ukraine cannot be accurately predicted since the removal of President Yanukovych from power by the Ukrainian parliament in late February 2014, which was followed by reports of Russian military activity in the Crimean region, and the election of Volodymyr Zelensky in May 2019. Ukraine’s political activities remain fluid and beyond our control. As a result of the decision of the Russian government to annex the Crimea region of Ukraine, the United States
and the European Community have imposed economic sanctions on Russia. We also cannot predict the outcome of developments in Ukraine or the reaction to such developments by the United States, European, U.N. or other international authorities. While we continue to monitor the situation in Ukraine closely, any prolonged or expanded unrest, military activities, or sanctions, should they be implemented, could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have a significant research and development center in Ukraine and, accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected by economic, political and legal developments in Ukraine.
Romania
The current political environment in Romania is dynamic and may become unstable. In January 2017, the newly elected coalition government led by the Social Democratic Party passed a decree that would have decriminalized certain major corruption cases, which spurred large public protests throughout Romania. Prime Minister Ludovic Orban took over as prime minister in November 2019, after the Social Democratic Party lost a parliamentary confidence vote in October 2018. Separately, on-going recent military conflict in Ukraine has resulted in a negative impact in the region, affecting Romania’s political and economic outlook. Romania has a significant land border with Ukraine and, as a result, ongoing instability or military conflicts in Ukraine could have a significant and adverse effect on Romania’s economic and financial stability either directly or indirectly as a result of sanctions. We have a significant research and development center and a customer service center in Romania and, accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected by economic, political and legal developments in Romania.
Any disruption to our operations in Belarus, Ukraine or Romania may be prolonged and require us to reevaluate our operations in those countries, which may be more expensive and harm our business.
We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Our functional currency is the U.S. Dollar and our revenues and expenses are primarily denominated in U.S. Dollars. However, a significant portion of our headcount related expenses, consisting principally of salaries and related personnel expenses as well as leases and certain other operating expenses, are denominated in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. This foreign currency exposure gives rise to market risk associated with strengthening of the NIS versus the U.S. Dollar. Furthermore, we anticipate that a material portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS.
In addition, increased international sales in the future may result in greater foreign currency denominated sales, increasing our foreign currency risk. Moreover, operating expenses incurred outside the United States and denominated in foreign currencies are increasing and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. To date, we have entered into hedging transactions only with respect to Israeli shekel (ILS) currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into additional hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations.
Yuzhu Shi is a Chinese national and Giant is a Chinese company that indirectly control our controlling stockholder, Playtika Holding UK. For so long as a Chinese individual or company continues to exercise majority voting control over us, changes in U.S. and Chinese laws in the future may make it more difficult for us to operate as a publicly traded company in the United States.
Future developments in U.S. and Chinese laws may restrict our ability or willingness to operate as a publicly traded company in the United States for so long as Yuzhu Shi, who is a Chinese national, and Giant, which is a Chinese company, or other Chinese investors, continue to beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding shares of common stock. The relations between China and the United States are constantly changing. During his administration, President Donald J. Trump issued a memorandum directing the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets to convene to discuss the risks faced by U.S. investors in Chinese companies and issued several executive orders restricting the operations of Chinese companies, such as the company that owns TikTok, in the United States. Additionally, the federal government has recently proposed legislation intended to protect American investments in Chinese companies. President Joseph R. Biden has not put forth
specific policy proposals regarding China and it is unclear at the time of the filing of this annual report which of President Trump’s policies, if any, President Biden will continue to implement. In addition, various equity-based research organizations have published reports on Chinese companies after examining their corporate governance practices, related party transactions, sales practices and financial statements, and these reports have led to special investigations and listing suspensions on U.S. national exchanges. While we are not a Chinese company, any similar scrutiny of us, regardless of its merit, could have an adverse effect upon our business, including our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and prospects. Additionally, should we be the subject of or indirectly covered by new legislation or executive orders addressed at protecting American investments in Chinese or Chinese-owned companies, our revenues and profitability would be materially reduced and our business and results of operations would be seriously harmed.
The Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States may modify, delay or prevent our future acquisition or investment activities.
For so long as Giant retains a material ownership interest in us, we will be deemed a “foreign person” under the regulations relating to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS. As such, acquisitions of or investments in U.S. businesses or foreign businesses with U.S. subsidiaries that we may wish to pursue may be subject to CFIUS review, the scope of which was recently expanded by the Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act of 2018, or FIRRMA, to include certain non-passive, non-controlling investments (including certain investments in entities that hold or process personal information about U.S. nationals), certain acquisitions of real estate even with no underlying U.S. business, transactions designed or intended to evade or circumvent CFIUS jurisdiction and any transaction resulting in a “change in the rights” of a foreign person in a U.S. business if that change could result in either control of the business or a covered non-controlling investment. FIRRMA also subjects certain categories of investments to mandatory filings. If a particular proposed acquisition or investment in a U.S. business falls within CFIUS’s jurisdiction, we may determine that we are required to make a mandatory filing or that we will submit to CFIUS review on a voluntary basis, or to proceed with the transaction without submitting to CFIUS and risk CFIUS intervention, before or after closing the transaction. CFIUS may decide to block or delay an acquisition or investment by us, impose conditions with respect to such acquisition or investment or order us to divest all or a portion of a U.S. business that we acquired without first obtaining CFIUS approval, which may limit the attractiveness of or prevent us from pursuing certain acquisitions or investments that we believe would otherwise be beneficial to us and our stockholders. Our inability to complete acquisitions and integrate those businesses successfully could limit our growth or disrupt our plans and operations. In addition, among other things, FIRRMA authorizes CFIUS to prescribe regulations defining “foreign person” differently in different contexts, which could result in less favorable treatment for investments and acquisitions by companies from countries of “special concern.” If such future regulations impose additional burdens on acquisition and investment activities involving China and Chinese investor-controlled entities, our ability to consummate transactions falling within CFIUS’s jurisdiction that might otherwise be beneficial to us and our stockholders would be hindered.
Risks Related to Our Information Technology and Data Security
Our success depends upon our ability to adapt to, and keep pace with, changes in technology, platforms and devices, and evolving industry standards.
Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain players, which is largely driven by maintaining and increasing the quality and content of our games. To satisfy players, we need to continue to improve their experience and innovate and introduce games that players find useful and that cause them to return to our suite of games more frequently. This includes continuing to improve our technology to tailor our game offerings to the preferences and requirements of additional geographic and market segments, and adapt to the release of new devices and platforms and to improve the user-friendliness and overall availability of our games, all of which can be costly and generate risk. Our ability to anticipate or respond to changing technology and evolving industry standards and to develop and introduce improvements and enhancements to games on a timely basis is a significant factor affecting our ability to remain competitive, expand and attract new players and retain existing players. We cannot assure you that we will achieve the necessary technological advances or have the financial or other resources needed to introduce new games or improvements and enhancements to games on a timely basis or at all. In addition, our ability to increase the number of players of our games will depend on continued player adoption of such games. Accordingly, our failure to develop or adjust to changes in technology, platforms, devices and operating models and evolving industry standards could adversely impact our business. Even where we are able to successfully adapt to changing
technology, platforms, devices and operating models and evolving industry standards, we may require substantial expenditures to do so, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations.
Our games and other software applications and systems, and the third-party platforms upon which they are made available, could contain undetected errors.
Our games and other software applications and systems, as well as the third-party platforms upon which they are made available, could contain undetected errors, bugs, flaws, corrupted data, defects and other vulnerabilities that could adversely affect the performance of our games. These defects may only become apparent after we launch a new game or publish an update to an existing game, particularly as we launch new games or updates and rapidly release new features to existing games under tight time constraints. For example, these errors could prevent a player from making in-game purchases of virtual items, which could harm our reputation or results of operations. These errors could also be exploited by cheating programs and other forms of misappropriation, thus harming the overall game-playing experience for our players. This could cause players to reduce their playing time or in-game purchases, discontinue playing our games altogether, or not recommend our games to other players, which could result in further harm to our reputation or results of operations. Such errors could also result in our games being non-compliant with applicable laws or create legal liability for us. Resolving such errors could disrupt our operations, cause us to divert resources from other projects, or harm our results of operations.
Any failure or significant interruption in our network could impact our operations and harm our business.
Our technology infrastructure is critical to the performance of our games and to player satisfaction. Most of our games run on our private cloud computing systems that are run through two primary data centers in the United States and one primary data center in the European Union. Our servers located in these data centers are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. The occurrence of any of these events could cause our games to become unavailable for a short or long period of time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, malicious attempts to cause platform unavailability, and capacity constraints. If a particular game is unavailable when players attempt to access it or navigation through a game is slower than they expect, players may stop playing the game and may be less likely to return to the game as often, if at all. Similarly, certain games rely on third-party data centers, which may have similar risks over which we would have less control. A failure or significant interruption in our game service would harm our reputation and operations. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our technology infrastructure to maintain and improve all aspects of player experience and game performance. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate increasing traffic, our business and results of operations may suffer. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems, other than losses caused by cyber-attacks for which we have limited insurance coverage, and we do not have business interruption insurance, which may increase any potential harms that the business may suffer from systems failure or business interruptions.
Our success depends on the security and integrity of the games we offer, and security breaches or other disruptions could compromise our information or the information of our players and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer.
We believe that our success depends in large part on providing secure games to our players. Our business sometimes involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of players’ proprietary, confidential and personal information. We also maintain certain other proprietary and confidential information relating to our business and personal information of our personnel. Despite our security measures, our games may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, players, vendors or employees or breaches due to malfeasance or other disruptions. Any security breach or incident that we experience could result in unauthorized access to, misuse of, or unauthorized acquisition of our or our players’ data, the loss, corruption or alteration of this data, interruptions in our operations, or damage to our computers or systems or those of our players or third-party platforms. Any of these could expose us to claims, litigation, fines and potential liability.
An increasing number of online services have disclosed security breaches, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their services. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or
degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not foreseeable or recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures and brand could be harmed, and we could lose players. Data security breaches and other data security incidents may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by employees or contractors. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, regulatory or other governmental investigations, enforcement actions, and legal and financial exposure, including potential contractual liability that is not always limited to the amounts covered by our insurance. Any such compromise could also result in damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in our security measures. Any of these effects could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
Our ability to prevent anomalies and monitor and ensure the quality and integrity of our games and software is periodically reviewed and enhanced, but may not be sufficient to prevent future attacks, breaches or disruptions. Similarly, we assess the adequacy of our security systems, including the security of our games and software to protect against any material loss to any of our players and the integrity of our games to players. However, we cannot provide assurances that our business will not be affected by a security breach or lapse.
If we sustain cyber-attacks or other privacy or data security incidents that result in security breaches, we could suffer a loss of sales and increased costs, exposure to significant liability, reputational harm and other negative consequences.
Our information technology may be subject to cyber-attacks, viruses, malicious software, break-ins, theft, computer hacking, employee error or malfeasance or other security breaches. Hackers and data thieves are increasingly sophisticated and operate large-scale and complex automated attacks. Experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise sensitive personal, proprietary or confidential information, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. They also may be able to develop and deploy malicious software programs that attack our systems or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities. Our systems and the data stored on those systems may also be vulnerable to security incidents or security attacks, acts of vandalism or theft, coordinated attacks by activist entities, misplaced or lost data, human errors, or other similar events that could negatively affect our systems and the data stored on those systems, and the data of our business partners. Further, third parties, such as hosted solution providers, that provide services to us could also be a source of security risks in the event of a failure of their own security systems and infrastructure.
The costs to eliminate or address the foregoing security threats and vulnerabilities before or after a cyber-incident could be significant. Our remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential suppliers or players. As threats related to cyber-attacks develop and grow, we may also find it necessary to make further investments to protect our data and infrastructure, which may impact our results of operations. Although we have insurance coverage for protecting against cyber-attacks, it may not be sufficient to cover all possible claims stemming from security breaches, cyberattacks and other types of unlawful activity, or any resulting disruptions from such events, and we may suffer losses that could have a material adverse effect on our business. We could also be negatively impacted by existing and proposed laws and regulations in the United States, Israel, the European Union, and other jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as government policies and practices related to cybersecurity, data privacy, data localization and data protection.
In addition, the platforms on which we distribute games may encourage, or require, compliance with certain security standards, such as the voluntary cybersecurity framework released by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, or NIST, which consists of controls designed to identify and manage cyber-security risks, and we could be negatively impacted to the extent we are unable to comply with such standards.
We rely on information technology and other systems, and any failures in our systems or errors, defects or disruptions in our games could diminish our brand and reputation, subject us to liability and disrupt our business and adversely impact our results of operations.
We rely on information technology systems that are important to the operation of our business, some of which are managed by third parties. These third parties are typically under no obligation to renew agreements and there is no guarantee that we will be able to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. These systems are used to process,
transmit and store electronic information, to manage and support our business operations and to maintain internal control over our financial reporting. In addition, we collect and store certain data, including proprietary business information, and may have access to confidential or personal information in certain of our businesses that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. We could encounter difficulties in developing new systems, maintaining and upgrading current systems and preventing security breaches. Among other things, our systems are susceptible to damage, outages, disruptions or shutdowns due to fire, floods, power loss, break-ins, cyber-attacks, network penetration, denial of service attacks and similar events. Any failures in our computer systems or telecommunications services could affect our ability to operate our games or otherwise conduct business.
Portions of our information technology infrastructure, including those operated by third parties, may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource-intensive. We have no control over third parties that provide services to us and those parties could suffer problems or make decisions adverse to our business. We have contingency plans in place to prevent or mitigate the impact of these events. However, such disruptions could materially and adversely impact our ability to deliver games to players and interrupt other processes. If our information systems do not allow us to transmit accurate information, even for a short period of time, to key decision-makers, the ability to manage our business could be disrupted and our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Failure to properly or adequately address these issues could impact our ability to perform necessary business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.
Substantially all of our games rely on data transferred over the internet, including wireless internet. Access to the internet in a timely fashion is necessary to provide a satisfactory player experience to the players of our games. Third parties, such as telecommunications companies, could prevent access to the internet or limit the speed of our data transmissions, with or without reason, causing an adverse impact on our player experience that may materially and adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, telecommunications companies may implement certain measures, such as increased cost or restrictions based on the type or amount of data transmitted, that would impact consumers’ ability to access our games, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our reputation, competitive position, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Furthermore, internet penetration may be adversely affected by difficult global economic conditions or the cancellation of government programs to expand broadband access.
Our business depends on the growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure.
Our success depends on the continued growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure in the United States and internationally. This includes deployment and maintenance of reliable next-generation digital networks with the speed, data capacity and security necessary to provide reliable wireless communications services. Wireless communications infrastructure may be unable to support the demands placed on it if the number of subscribers continues to increase, or if existing or future subscribers increase their bandwidth requirements. Wireless communications have experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of infrastructure and equipment failures and could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of wireless communications usage as well as our ability to distribute our games successfully. In addition, changes by a wireless carrier to network infrastructure may interfere with downloads of our games and may cause players to lose functionality in our games that they have already downloaded. This could harm our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations.
Data privacy and security laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we do business could increase the cost of our operations and subject us to possible sanctions, civil lawsuits (including class action or similar representative lawsuits) and other penalties; such laws and regulations are continually evolving. Our or our platform and service providers’ actual or perceived failure to comply with these laws and regulations could harm our business.
We collect, process, store, use and share data, some of which contains personal information, including the personal information of our players. Our business is therefore subject to a number of federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, regulatory codes and guidelines governing data privacy, data protection and security, including with respect to the collection,
storage, use, processing, transmission, sharing and protection of personal information. Such laws, regulations, regulatory codes and guidelines may be inconsistent across jurisdictions or conflict with other rules.
The scope of data privacy and security regulations worldwide continues to evolve, and we believe that the adoption of increasingly restrictive regulations in this area is likely within the United States and other jurisdictions. For example, in 2018, California enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), which became effective on January 1, 2020. The CCPA gives California residents new rights to access and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing, and receive detailed information about how their personal information is collected, used, and shared. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for security breaches that may increase security breach litigation. The effects of the CCPA are significant and have required, and could continue to require, us to modify our data collection or processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Some observers have noted that the CCPA could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent state privacy legislation in the U.S., which could increase our potential liability and adversely affect our business. Further, in November 2020, California voters passed the California Privacy Rights Act, or CPRA. The CPRA, which is expected to take effect on January 1, 2023 and to create obligations with respect to certain data relating to consumers as of January 1, 2022, significantly expands the CCPA, including by introducing additional obligations such as data minimization and storage limitations, granting additional rights to consumers, such as correction of personal information and additional opt-out rights, and creates a new entity, the California Privacy Protection Agency, to implement and enforce the law. Further, there currently are a number of additional proposals related to data privacy or security pending before federal, state, and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies, including in a number of U.S. states considering consumer protection laws similar to the CCPA. This legislation may add additional complexity, variation in requirements, restrictions and potential legal risk, require additional investment in resources to compliance programs, and could impact strategies and availability of previously useful data and could result in increased compliance costs and/or changes in business practices and policies.
Further, the European Union has adopted comprehensive data privacy and security regulations. The European Union’s Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), or the GDPR, which became effective in May 2018, imposes strict requirements on controllers and processors of personal data in the European Economic Area, or EEA, including, for example, higher standards for obtaining consent from individuals to process their personal data, more robust disclosures to individuals and a strengthened individual data rights regime, and shortened timelines for data breach notifications. The GDPR created new compliance obligations applicable to our business and some of our players, which could require us to self-determine how to interpret and implement these obligations, change our business practices and expose us to lawsuits (including class action or similar representative lawsuits) by consumers or consumer organizations for alleged breach of data protection laws. The GDPR increases financial penalties for noncompliance (including possible fines of up to 4% of global annual revenues for the preceding financial year or €20 million (whichever is higher) for the most serious violations). The United Kingdom operates a separate but similar regime to the European Union that allows for fines of up to the greater of £17.5 million or 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year. Further, beginning January 1, 2021, we have to comply with the GDPR and also the United Kingdom GDPR (UK GDPR), which, together with the amended United Kingdom Data Protection Act 2018, retains the GDPR in United Kingdom national law. The relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union in relation to certain aspects of data protection law remains unclear, and it is unclear how United Kingdom data protection laws and regulations will develop in the medium to longer term, and how data transfers to and from the United Kingdom will be regulated in the long term. Currently there is a four to six-month grace period agreed to in the European Union and United Kingdom Trade and Cooperation Agreement, ending June 30, 2021 at the latest, during which period the parties are to discuss an adequacy decision. However, it is not clear whether (and when) an adequacy decision may be granted by the European Commission enabling data transfers from European Union member states to the United Kingdom on a long term basis without additional measures. These changes may lead to additional costs and increase our overall risk exposure.
In recent years, the United States and European lawmakers and regulators have expressed concern over electronic marketing and the use of third-party cookies, web beacons and similar technology for online behavioral advertising. In the European Union, marketing is defined broadly to include any promotional material and the rules specifically on e-marketing are currently set out in the ePrivacy Directive which will be replaced by a new ePrivacy Regulation. While the ePrivacy Regulation was originally intended to be adopted on 25 May 2018 (alongside the GDPR), it is still going through the
European legislative process. The current draft of the ePrivacy Regulation imposes strict opt-in e-marketing rules with limited exceptions for business to business communications and significantly increases fining powers to the same levels as the GDPR. Regulation of cookies and web beacons may lead to broader restrictions on our online activities, including efforts to understand followers’ internet usage and promote ourselves to them.
Israel has also implemented data protection laws and regulations, including the Israeli Protection of Privacy Law, 5741-1981, or the PPL. The PPL imposes certain obligations on the owners of databases containing personal data, including, e.g., a requirement to register databases with certain characteristics, an obligation to notify data subjects of the purposes for which their personal data is collected and processed and of the disclosure of such data to third parties, a requirement to respond to certain requests from data subjects to access, rectify, and/or delete personal data relating to them and an obligation to maintain the security of personal data. In addition, the Protection of Privacy Regulations (Data Security), 5777-2017, that entered into force in May 2018, impose comprehensive data security requirements on the processing of personal data. The Protection of Privacy Regulations (Transfer of Data to Overseas Databases), 5761-2001, further impose certain conditions on cross-border transfers of personal data from databases in Israel. Moreover, the European Commission is currently reevaluating its adequacy decision with respect to the flow of personal data into Israel. A change in this adequacy decision might affect the conditions in which we will be able to transfer personal data from the European Union (and Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland) into Israel.
Certain violations of the PPL are considered a criminal and/or a civil offense and could expose the violating entity to criminal, administrative, and financial sanctions, as well as to civil actions. Additionally, the Israel Privacy Protection Authority, or the Privacy Protection Authority, may issue a public statement that an entity violated the PPL, and such a determination could potentially be used against such entity in civil litigation. In July 2020, the Israeli Ministry of Justice indicated that it intends to promote amendments to the PPL designed, among other things, to enhance the Privacy Protection Authority’s investigative and enforcement powers (including powers to impose fines) and to broaden data subject rights.
Efforts to comply with these and other data privacy and security restrictions that may be enacted could require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and increase the cost of our operations. Failure to comply with such restrictions could subject us to criminal and civil sanctions and other penalties. In part due to the uncertainty of the legal climate, complying with regulations, and any applicable rules or guidance from regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations relating to privacy, data protection, information security and consumer protection, may result in substantial costs and may necessitate changes to our business practices, which may compromise our growth strategy, adversely affect our ability to attract or retain players, and otherwise adversely affect our business, reputation, legal exposure, financial condition and results of operations.
Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to players or other third parties, or any other legal obligations or regulatory requirements relating to privacy, data protection, or information security may result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, litigation, claims (including class actions), or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could result in significant liability, cause our players to lose trust in us, and otherwise materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to us may limit the adoption and use of, and reduce the overall demand for, our games. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as our service providers or data sharing partners, violate applicable laws, regulations, or agreements, such violations may put our players’ and/or employees’ data at risk, could result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, fines, litigation, claims (including class action claims) or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could result in significant liability, cause our players to lose trust in us and otherwise materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Further, public scrutiny of, or complaints about, technology companies or their data handling or data protection practices, even if unrelated to our business, industry or operations, may lead to increased scrutiny of technology companies, including us, and may cause government agencies to enact additional regulatory requirements, or to modify their enforcement or investigation activities, which may increase our costs and risks.
While none of our games primarily target children under 13 years of age as their primary audience, the FTC, as well as consumer organizations, may consider that the characteristics of several of our games attract children under 13 years of age. The U.S. Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act, or COPPA, regulates the collection, use and disclosure of personal information from children under 13 years of age. While none of our games are directed at children under 13 years of age, if
COPPA were to apply to us, failure to comply with COPPA may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting government investigations and could result in substantial fines. Although we have taken measures to identify which of our games are subject to COPPA due to their child-appealing nature and to comply with COPPA with respect to those games, if COPPA were to apply to us in a manner other than we have assessed or prepared for, our actual or alleged failure to comply with COPPA may increase our costs, subject us to expensive and distracting lawsuits or government investigations, could result in substantial fines or civil damages and could cause us to temporarily or permanently discontinue certain games or certain features and functions in games.
The United Kingdom recently enacted the “Age Appropriate Design Code”, a statutory code of practice pursuant to the United Kingdom Data Protection Act 2018. This code came into force on September 2, 2020, with a 12-month transition period for organizations to conform. The code requires online services, including our games that are likely to be accessed by children under 18, to put the best interests of the child’s privacy first in the design, development and data-related behavior of the game. The UK government is also separately consulting on legislation in relation to user safety online. It is possible that other countries within and outside the European Union will follow with their own codes or guidance documents relating to processing personal information from children or in relation to online harms. These may result in substantial costs and may necessitate changes to our business practices which may compromise our growth strategy, adversely affect our ability to attract, monetize or retain players, and otherwise adversely affect our business, reputation, legal exposures, financial condition and results of operations.
In addition, in some cases, we are dependent upon our platform providers to solicit, collect and provide us with information regarding our players that is necessary for compliance with these various types of regulations. Our business, including our ability to operate and expand internationally, could be adversely affected if laws or regulations are adopted, interpreted or implemented in a manner that is inconsistent with our current business practices and that require changes to these practices, the design of our games, features or our privacy policy. These platform providers may dictate rules, conduct or technical features that do not properly comply with federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations and regulatory codes and guidelines governing data privacy, data protection and security, including with respect to the collection, storage, use, processing, transmission, sharing and protection of personal information and other consumer data. In addition, these platforms may dictate rules, conduct or technical features relating to the collection, storage, use, transmission, sharing and protection of personal information and other consumer data, which may result in substantial costs and may necessitate changes to our business practices, which in turn may compromise our growth strategy, adversely affect our ability to attract, monetize or retain players, and otherwise adversely affect our business, reputation, legal exposures, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with these platform-dictated rules, conduct or technical features may result in platform-led investigations or enforcement actions, litigation, or public statements against us, which in turn could result in significant liability or temporary or permanent suspension of our business activities with these platforms, cause our players to lose trust in us, and otherwise compromise our growth strategy, adversely affect our ability to attract, monetize or retain players, and otherwise adversely affect our business, reputation, legal exposures, financial condition and results of operations.
Player interaction with our games is subject to our privacy policy and terms of service. If we fail to comply with our posted privacy policy or terms of service or if we fail to comply with existing privacy-related or data protection laws and regulations, it could result in proceedings or litigation against us by governmental authorities or others, which could result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, impact our financial condition and harm our business. If regulators, the media or consumers raise any concerns about our privacy and data protection or consumer protection practices, even if unfounded, this could also result in fines or judgments against us, damage our reputation, and negatively impact our financial condition and damage our business.
In the area of information security and data protection, many jurisdictions have passed laws requiring notification when there is a security breach involving personal data or requiring the adoption of minimum information security standards that are often vaguely defined and difficult to implement. Our security measures and standards may not be sufficient to protect personal information and we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches. A security breach that compromises personal information could harm our reputation and result in a loss of player and/or employee confidence in our games and ultimately in a loss of players, which could adversely affect our business and impact our financial condition. A security breach could also involve loss or unavailability of business-critical data, and could require us to spend significant resources to mitigate and repair the breach, which in turn could compromise our growth and adversely affect our ability to
attract, monetize or retain players. These risks could also subject us to liability under applicable security breach-related laws and regulations and could result in additional compliance costs, costs related to regulatory inquiries and investigations, and an inability to conduct our business.
Risks Related to Intellectual Property
Our business depends on the protection of our intellectual property rights and proprietary information. If we are unable to obtain, maintain and enforce intellectual property protection for our games, or if the scope of intellectual property protection is not sufficiently broad, others may be able to develop and commercialize games substantially similar to ours, and our ability to successfully commercialize our games may be compromised.
We believe that our success depends, in part, on protecting our owned and licensed intellectual property rights in the United States and in foreign countries, and we strive to protect such intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as contractual restrictions. Our intellectual property includes certain trademarks, copyrights, patents, and trade secrets relating to our games or technology we operate, and proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to formal intellectual property protection. Our success may depend, in part, on our and our licensors’ ability to protect the trademarks, trade dress, names, logos or symbols under which we market our games and to obtain and maintain patent, copyright, trade secret and other intellectual property protection for the technologies, designs, software and innovations used in our games and our business. Though we own certain patents and patent applications relating to our technology and games, it is possible that third parties, including our competitors, may develop similar technology that is not within the scope of our patents, which would limit the competitive advantage of our patented technology, or obtain patents relating to technologies that overlap or compete with our technology. If third parties obtain patent protection with respect to such technologies, they may assert that our technology infringes their patents and seek to charge us a licensing fee or otherwise preclude the use of our technology. We have pursued and continue to pursue the filing of patents and registration of trademarks in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful. We may not be able to obtain protection for our intellectual property rights and even if we are successful in obtaining effective patent, trademark and copyright protection, it is expensive to maintain these rights and the costs of defending our rights could be substantial. Moreover, our failure to develop and properly manage new intellectual property could hurt our market position and business opportunities. Furthermore, changes to intellectual property laws may jeopardize the enforceability and validity of our intellectual property portfolio and harm our ability to obtain intellectual property protection.
In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain consumer value in our trademarks, copyrights or other intellectual property rights in our technologies, designs, software and innovations, and the measures we take to protect our intellectual property rights may not provide us with a competitive advantage. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, our competitive position and our business could be harmed. Any of our owned or licensed intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed, misappropriated or violated, our trade secrets and other confidential information could be disclosed in an unauthorized manner to third parties, or our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends, which could result in competitive harm. For example, in December 2016, a trademark infringement lawsuit was filed in Canadian court by Enigmatus s.r.o. against Playtika Ltd. and CIE regarding our use of the Slotomania trademarks. Additionally, in October 2020, a patent infringement claim, NEXRF Corp. v. Playtika Ltd., Playtika Holding Corp. and Caesars Interactive Entertainment LLC, was filed against Playtika Holding Corp., Playtika Ltd., our subsidiary, and CIE in U.S. District Court, District of Nevada alleging infringement of certain patents related to plaintiff’s games. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.”
If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets, our business and competitive position would be harmed.
We rely on trade secrets and proprietary knowledge to protect our unpatented know-how, technology and other proprietary information and to maintain our competitive position. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and independent contractors regarding our trade secrets and proprietary information in order to limit access to, and disclosure and use of, our proprietary information, but we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets or proprietary information. Further, we cannot assure you that the obligation to maintain the confidentiality of our trade secrets and proprietary information will be honored. Any of these parties may breach the agreements and disclose our proprietary information, including our trade secrets, and we may not be able to obtain
adequate remedies for such breaches. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally disclosed or misappropriated a trade secret is difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, some courts inside and outside the United States are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. If any of our trade secrets were to be lawfully obtained or independently developed by a competitor or other third party, we would have no right to prevent them from using that technology or information to compete with us, which could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
We may be subject to claims that our employees, consultants, or advisors have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their current or former employers or claims asserting ownership of what we regard as our own intellectual property.
Many of our employees, consultants, and advisors are currently or were previously employed at other companies in our field, including our competitors or potential competitors. Although we try to ensure that our employees, consultants, and advisors do not use the proprietary information or know-how of others in their work for us, we may be subject to claims that we or these individuals have used or disclosed intellectual property, including trade secrets or other proprietary information, of any such individual’s current or former employer. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. If we fail in defending any such claims, in addition to paying monetary damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. Even if we are successful in defending against such claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management.
In addition, while it is our policy to require our employees and contractors who may be involved in the conception or development of intellectual property to execute agreements assigning such intellectual property to us, we may be unsuccessful in executing such an agreement with each party who, in fact, conceives or develops intellectual property that we regard as our own. The assignment of intellectual property rights may not be self-executing, or the assignment agreements may be breached, and we may be forced to bring claims against third parties, or defend claims that they may bring against us, to determine the ownership of what we regard as our intellectual property. Any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
We may become involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property, which could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful.
Third parties, including our competitors, could be infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. The steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be adequate to enforce our rights against infringement, misappropriation or other violation of our intellectual property. We may not be able to detect unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Any inability to meaningfully enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our ability to compete and reduce demand for our games.
In the future, we may make claims of infringement against third parties, or make claims that third-party intellectual property rights are invalid or unenforceable. These claims could:
•cause us to incur greater costs and expenses in the protection of our intellectual property;
•potentially negatively impact our intellectual property rights, for example, by causing one or more of our intellectual property rights to be ruled or rendered unenforceable or invalid; or
•divert management’s attention and our resources.
In any lawsuit we bring to enforce our intellectual property rights, a court may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on grounds that our intellectual property rights do not cover the technology in question. Further, in such proceedings, the defendant could counterclaim that our intellectual property is invalid or unenforceable and the court may agree, in which case we could lose valuable intellectual property rights. The outcome in any such lawsuits are unpredictable.
Litigation or other legal proceedings relating to intellectual property claims, even if resolved in our favor, may cause us to incur significant expenses and could distract our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions, or other interim proceedings or
developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We may not have sufficient financial or other resources to conduct such litigation or proceedings adequately. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources and more mature and developed intellectual property portfolios. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of intellectual property proceedings could harm our ability to compete in the marketplace. In addition, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. Any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Failure to renew our existing brand and content licenses on favorable terms or at all and to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new games, improvements or enhancements or to continue to offer our current games based on third-party content and make their brands and content available.
We license certain intellectual property rights from third parties, and in the future we may enter into additional agreements that provide us with licenses to valuable intellectual property rights or technology. In particular, we license intellectual property rights related to our Caesars Slots and World Series of Poker games from CIE. Combined revenues derived from these games accounted for 15.0% and 17.0% of our revenues in each of the years ended December, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Even if games based on licensed content or brands remain popular, any of our licensors could decide not to renew our existing licenses or not to license additional intellectual property rights to us and instead license to our competitors or develop and publish its own games or other applications, competing with us in the marketplace. Many of these licensors already develop games for other platforms and may have significant experience and development resources available to them should they decide to compete with us rather than license to us.
CIE has granted us an exclusive, worldwide and royalty-bearing license to certain intellectual property associated with World Series of Poker through September 23, 2031, and an exclusive, worldwide and royalty-bearing sublicense to certain trademarks and domain names associated with Caesars Slots through December 31, 2026. The trademarks and domain names associated with Caesars Slots were licensed to CIE from Caesars Entertainment Operating Company, Inc., or CEOC, and certain of its affiliates. These licenses permit the development, design, manufacture, offering for sale, advertising, promotion, distribution, sale, and use of Caesars Slots and World Series of Poker games for social gaming. The Caesars Slots license includes non-competition provisions that prevent us from entering into marketing arrangements with other casino companies. Increased competition for licenses may lead to larger guarantees, advances and royalties that we must pay to our licensors when the terms of such licenses expire, which could significantly increase our cost of revenue and cash usage. We may be unable to renew these licenses or to renew them on terms favorable to us, and we may be unable to secure alternatives in a timely manner. Failure to maintain or renew our existing licenses or to obtain additional licenses would impair our ability to introduce new games or to continue to offer our current games, which would materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we breach our obligations under existing or future licenses, we may be required to pay damages and our licensors might have the right to terminate the license or change an exclusive license to a non-exclusive license. Termination by a licensor would cause us to lose valuable rights and could inhibit our ability to commercialize future games, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, certain intellectual property rights may be licensed to us on a non-exclusive basis. The owners of nonexclusively licensed intellectual property rights are free to license such rights to third parties, including our competitors, on terms that may be superior to those offered to us, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage. Moreover, our licensors may own or control intellectual property rights that have not been licensed to us and, as a result, we may be subject to claims, regardless of their merit, that we are infringing or otherwise violating the licensor’s rights. In addition, the agreements under which we license intellectual property rights or technology from third parties are generally complex, and certain provisions in such agreements may be susceptible to multiple interpretations. The resolution of any contract interpretation disagreement that may arise could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the relevant agreement. Any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
In the future, we may identify additional third-party intellectual property rights we may need to license in order to engage in our business, including to develop or commercialize new games. However, such licenses may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The licensing or acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights is a competitive area, and several more
established companies may pursue strategies to license or acquire third-party intellectual property rights that we may consider attractive or necessary. These established companies may have a competitive advantage over us due to their size, capital resources and greater development or commercialization capabilities. In addition, companies that perceive us to be a competitor may be unwilling to assign or license rights to us. Even if such licenses are available, we may be required to pay the licensor substantial royalties based on our net sales. Moreover, such licenses may be non-exclusive, which could give our competitors access to the same intellectual property rights licensed to us. If we are unable to enter into the necessary licenses on acceptable terms or at all, if any necessary licenses are subsequently terminated, if our licensors fail to abide by the terms of the licenses, if our licensors fail to prevent infringement by third parties, or if the licensed intellectual property rights are found to be invalid or unenforceable, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected.
Even if we are successful in gaining new licenses or extending existing licenses, we may fail to anticipate the entertainment preferences of our players when making choices about which brands or other content to license. If the entertainment preferences of players shift to content or brands owned or developed by companies with which we do not have relationships, we may be unable to establish and maintain successful relationships with these developers and owners, which would materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some rights are licensed from licensors that have or may develop financial difficulties and may enter into bankruptcy protection under U.S. federal law or the laws of other countries. In particular, CEOC operates in an industry that is vulnerable to changing economic conditions. For example, in 2015, CEOC filed for bankruptcy. If CEOC were to file for bankruptcy again or if any of our licensors files for bankruptcy, our licenses might be impaired or voided, which could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition.
We use open source software in connection with certain of our games, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, games and services in a manner that could have a negative impact on our business.
We use open source software in connection with our technology and games. The original developers of the open source code provide no warranties on such code and open source software may have unknown bugs, malfunctions and other security vulnerabilities which could impact the performance and information security of our technology. Some open source software licenses require those who distribute open source software as part of their proprietary software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. From time to time, we may face claims from the copyright holders of open source software alleging copyright infringement and breach of contract for failure to meet the open source license terms, such as the failure to publicly disclose our proprietary code that is a derivative work of the open source software. Additionally, the copyright holders of open source software could demand release of the source code of any of our proprietary code that is a derivative work of the open source software, or otherwise seek to enforce, have us specifically perform, or recover damages for the alleged infringement or breach of, the terms of the applicable open source license. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our games. The terms of various open source licenses have been interpreted by courts to a very limited extent, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions, obligations or restrictions on our use of the open source software. We monitor our use of open source software and try to use open source software in a manner that complies with the terms of the open source licenses while at the same time not requiring the disclosure of the source code of our proprietary software. Our failure to comply with the terms of the open source licenses could require us to replace certain code used in our games, pay a royalty or license fee to use some open source code, make the source code of our games publicly available, pay damages for copyright infringement or breach of contract of open source licenses, or temporarily or permanently discontinue certain games. The above risks could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, reputation, legal exposures, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
The intellectual property rights of others may prevent us from developing new games and services or entering new markets or may expose us to liability or costly litigation.
Our success depends in part on our ability to continually adapt our games to incorporate new technologies, as well as intellectual property related to game mechanics and procedures, and to expand into markets that may be created by these new developments. If technologies are protected by the intellectual property rights of others, including our competitors, we may be prevented from introducing games based on these technologies or expanding into markets created by these technologies.
We cannot assure you that our business activities and games will not infringe upon the proprietary rights of others, or that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us. We have in the past and may in the future be subject to litigation alleging that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors, non-practicing entities and former employers of our personnel. For example, in December 2016, a trademark infringement lawsuit was filed in Canadian court by Enigmatus s.r.o. against Playtika Ltd. and CIE regarding our use of the Slotomania trademarks. See “Item 3 - Legal Proceedings.” A successful claim of infringement by a third party against us, our games or one of our licensees in connection with the use of our technologies, game mechanics or procedures, or an unsuccessful claim of infringement made by us against a third party or its products or games, could adversely affect our business or cause us financial harm. Any such claim and any resulting litigation, should it occur, could:
•be expensive and time consuming to defend or require us to pay significant amounts in damages;
•result in invalidation of our proprietary rights or render our proprietary rights unenforceable;
•cause us to cease making, licensing or using games that incorporate the applicable intellectual property;
•require us to redesign, reengineer or rebrand our games or limit our ability to bring new games to the market in the future;
•require us to enter into costly or burdensome royalty, licensing or settlement agreements in order to obtain the right to use a product or process;
•impact the commercial viability of the games that are the subject of the claim during the pendency of such claim; or
•require us to stop selling the infringing games.
If any of our technologies or games are found to infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate a third party’s intellectual property rights, we could be required to obtain a license from such third party to continue commercializing or using such technology or game. However, we may not be able to obtain any required license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, it could be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors and other third parties access to the same technologies licensed to us, and it could require us to make substantial licensing and royalty payments. We could also be forced, including by court order, to cease the commercialization or use of the violating technology or game. Accordingly, we may be forced to design around such violated intellectual property, which may be expensive, time-consuming or infeasible. In addition, we could be found liable for significant monetary damages, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a patent or other intellectual property right. Claims that we have misappropriated the confidential information or trade secrets of third parties could similarly harm our business. If we are required to make substantial payments or undertake any of the other actions noted above as a result of any intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or violation claims against us, such payments, costs or actions could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects.
We may not be able to enforce our intellectual property rights throughout the world.
We may be required to protect our proprietary technology and content in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful, or which we may not pursue in every location. Filing, prosecuting, maintaining, defending, and enforcing our intellectual property rights in all jurisdictions throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive, and our intellectual property rights in some jurisdictions outside the United States may be less extensive than those in the United States. Competitors may use our technologies in jurisdictions where we have not obtained protection to develop their own games and, further, may export otherwise violating games to territories where we have protection but enforcement is not as strong as that in the United States. These games may compete with our games, and our intellectual property rights may not be effective or sufficient to prevent such competition. In addition, the laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant challenges in establishing and enforcing their proprietary rights outside of the United States. These challenges can be caused by the absence or inconsistency of the application of rules and methods for the establishment and enforcement of intellectual property rights outside of the United States. In addition, the legal systems of some jurisdictions, particularly developing countries, do not favor the enforcement of intellectual property protection. This could make it difficult for us to stop the infringement, misappropriation or other violation of our intellectual property rights. Accordingly, we may choose not to seek protection in certain jurisdictions, and we will not have the benefit of protection in such jurisdictions. Proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial costs and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Accordingly, our efforts to protect our intellectual
property rights in such jurisdictions may be inadequate. In addition, changes in the law and legal decisions by courts in the United States and foreign jurisdictions may affect our ability to obtain adequate protection for our games. Any of the foregoing could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
If our trademarks and trade names are not adequately protected, we may not be able to build name recognition in our markets of interest and our competitive position may be harmed.
The registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names that we own may be challenged, infringed, circumvented, declared generic, lapsed or determined to be infringing on or dilutive of other trademarks. We may not be able to protect our rights in these trademarks and trade names, which we need in order to build name recognition. In addition, third parties have filed, and may in the future file, for registration of trademarks similar or identical to our trademarks, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to market confusion. If they succeed in registering or developing common law rights in such trademarks, and if we are not successful in challenging such third-party rights, we may not be able to use these trademarks to develop brand recognition of our games. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of our registered or unregistered trademarks or trade names. If we are unable to establish name recognition based on our trademarks and trade names, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
General Risks
Securities analysts may not publish favorable research or reports about our business or may publish no information at all, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.
Our stock price and trading volume may be heavily influenced by the way analysts and investors interpret our financial information and other disclosures. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, delay publishing reports about our business, or publish negative reports about our business, regardless of accuracy, our common stock price and trading volume could decline.
The trading market for our common stock is influenced to some extent by the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. As a newly public company, we may be slow to attract research coverage and the analysts who publish information about our common stock will have had relatively little experience with us, which could affect their ability to accurately forecast our results and could make it more likely that we fail to meet their estimates. In the event we obtain securities or industry analyst coverage, if any of the analysts who cover us provide inaccurate or unfavorable research or issue an adverse opinion regarding our stock price, our stock price could decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports covering us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline.
Even if our common stock is actively covered by analysts, we do not have any control over the analysts or the measures that analysts or investors may rely upon to forecast our future results. Over-reliance by analysts or investors on any particular metric to forecast our future results may lead to forecasts that differ significantly from our own.
If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenues and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. If our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from our assumptions, our results of operations may be adversely affected and could fall below our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock.
Provisions in our corporate charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management.
Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control of us that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock, thereby depressing the market price of our common stock. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt by our stockholders to replace current members of our management team. Among others, these provisions include that:
•our board of directors has the exclusive right to expand the size of our board of directors and to elect directors to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;
•after the date on which Playtika Holding UK and its affiliates cease to beneficially own, in the aggregate, more than 50% in voting power of our stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (a “Triggering Event”), our board of directors will be divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving staggered three-year terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;
•after a Triggering Event, our stockholders may not act by written consent, which will force stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;
•a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors;
•our amended and restated certificate of incorporation prohibits cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;
•our board of directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval;
•the required approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares entitled to vote at an election of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws or repeal the provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation regarding the election and removal of directors;
•stockholders must provide advance notice and additional disclosures in order to nominate individuals for election to the board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at a stockholders’ meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquiror from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquiror’s own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our company; and
•our board of directors is authorized to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer.
Moreover, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which prohibits a person who owns in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person acquired in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock, unless the merger or combination is approved in a prescribed manner.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, another State court in Delaware or the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware) will be the sole and exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ abilities to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees.
Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation specifies that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for most legal actions involving actions brought against us by stockholders; provided that, the exclusive
forum provision will not apply to suits brought to enforce any liability or duty created by the Exchange Act or any other claim for which the U.S. federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction; and provided further that, if and only if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware dismisses any such action for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, such action may be brought in another state or federal court sitting in the State of Delaware. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation will also provide that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action against us or any of our directors, officers, employees or agents and arising under the Securities Act. We believe these provisions may benefit us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law and federal securities laws by chancellors and judges, as applicable, particularly experienced in resolving corporate disputes, efficient administration of cases on a more expedited schedule relative to other forums and protection against the burdens of multi-forum litigation. However, these provisions may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies’ certificates of incorporation has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that, in connection with any applicable action brought against us, a court could find the choice of forum provisions contained in our restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in such action.
ITEM 1B.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 882695fe87f228189690b5e9cbc00e8a
- Approx. Length: 32940 characters