# Context

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of
First Hawaiian, Inc.
Honolulu, Hawaii
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of First Hawaiian, Inc. and subsidiary (the “Company”) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “financial statements”). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 25, 2021, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
Change in Accounting Principle
As discussed in Note 1 to the financial statements, the Company has changed its method of accounting for its allowance for credit losses in 2020 due to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate.
Allowance for Credit Losses (ACL) - Refer to Note 5 to the financial statements.
Critical Audit Matter Description
On January 1, 2020, the Company adopted ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments, which modified the accounting for the allowance for credit losses from an incurred loss model to an expected loss model.
The Company’s ACL methodology considers many factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience and estimated defaults based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, and future economic conditions that will impact the amount of such future losses. Management’s expectation of future economic conditions is reflected in management’s selected economic forecast, ranging from mild, medium, to severe, based on various economic information including forecasted levels of employment, visitor arrivals and spending, interest rates and real estate prices. Management also incorporates qualitative adjustments to the quantitative model to capture the impact of events that are not easily captured in the model.
Determining the appropriate economic forecast adjustment and level of qualitative overlays is inherently subjective and relies on significant judgment. Given the magnitude of the impact of the economic forecast and qualitative overlays and significant amount of judgment required by management in developing these estimates, performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of the ACL required a high degree of auditor judgment, an increased extent of audit effort, and the need to involve more experienced audit professionals.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the economic forecast adjustment and qualitative overlays included the following procedures, among others:
•We tested the effectiveness of controls over the ACL, including management’s controls over the respective economic forecast and qualitative overlays selected.
•We evaluated the reasonableness and conceptual soundness of the ACL modeling framework, including the selection of the economic forecast adjustment and the use of qualitative adjustments.
•We tested the mathematical accuracy of the calculation of the qualitative component of the ACL, as well as the accuracy and completeness of data used as inputs to the determination of the qualitative adjustments.
•We evaluated the reasonableness of the economic forecast selection, including assessing the basis for the selection, as well as the accuracy and completeness of data used as inputs to the determination of the economic forecast selection.
•We evaluated the qualitative overlays to the historical loss rates, including assessing the basis for the adjustments and the reasonableness of the significant assumptions.
•We evaluated the magnitude and proportion of the overall allowance, including the directional consistency and magnitude of the qualitative overlays as compared to the prior year and prior quarters, as well as the absolute value of the ACL attributable to the qualitative overlays.
•In order to identify potential bias in the determination of the ACL, we performed analytical analysis, including retrospective review, various coverage and ratio analysis, and peer institution analysis, to evaluate the relevance of the underlying drivers used to determine qualitative overlays and the economic forecast adjustment to credit losses in the loan portfolios.
Other Assets - Goodwill - Refer to Note 7 to the financial statements.
Critical Audit Matter Description
The Company’s goodwill balance was $995.5 million as of December 31, 2020, which was allocated to the Retail and Commercial reporting units. The fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values as of the measurement date and, therefore, no impairment was recognized. The Company’s evaluation of goodwill for impairment involves the comparison of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Company applied an equal weighting of the income approach (discounted cash flows) and market approach to estimate fair value. The income approach requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions related to the discount rates and forecasts of future net interest income and net income. Changes in these assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value, the amount of any goodwill impairment charge, or both.
Given the significant judgments made by management to estimate the fair value of its reporting units and the difference between the fair value and carrying value, performing audit procedures to evaluate the reasonableness of management’s estimates and assumptions related to the selection of the discount rates and forecasts of future net interest income and net income, required a high degree of auditor judgment and an increased extent of effort, including the need to involve our fair value specialists.
How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our audit procedures related to the discount rates and forecasts of future net interest income and net income for each reporting unit included the following procedures, among others:
•We tested the effectiveness of controls over management’s goodwill impairment evaluation, including those over the determination of fair value of the Retail and Commercial reporting units, including controls related to management’s forecasts and selection of the discount rates and forecasts of future net interest income and net income.
•We evaluated management’s ability to accurately forecast future cash flows by comparing actual results to management’s historical forecasts.
•We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s forecasts of future cash flows by comparing the forecasts to:
oSupporting calculations of net interest income and net income.
oInternal communications to management and the Board of Directors.
oForecasted information included in Company press releases as well as in analyst and industry reports for the Company and certain of its peer companies.
•With the assistance of our fair value specialists, we evaluated the reasonableness of the (1) valuation methodology and (2) the discount rates by:
oTesting the source information underlying the determination of the discount rates and the mathematical accuracy of the calculation.
oDeveloping a range of independent estimates and comparing those to the discount rates selected by management.
•We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s sensitivity analysis used to “stress” its assumptions.
/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Honolulu, Hawaii
February 25, 2021
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2012.
FIRST HAWAIIAN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
FIRST HAWAIIAN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
FIRST HAWAIIAN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
FIRST HAWAIIAN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
FIRST HAWAIIAN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.
FIRST HAWAIIAN, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
First Hawaiian, Inc. (“FHI” or the “Parent”), a bank holding company, owns 100% of the outstanding common stock of First Hawaiian Bank (“FHB” or the “Bank”). FHB is a state-chartered bank that is not a member of the Federal Reserve System. FHB, the oldest financial institution in Hawaii, was established as Bishop & Company in 1858. As of December 31, 2020, FHB was the largest bank in Hawaii in terms of total assets, loans and leases, deposits, and net income. FHB has 54 branches located throughout the State of Hawaii, Guam and Saipan, and offers a comprehensive suite of banking services to consumer and commercial customers including loans, deposit products, wealth management, insurance, trust, retirement planning, credit card and merchant processing services.
The accounting and reporting principles of First Hawaiian, Inc. and Subsidiary (the “Company”) conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and prevailing practices within the financial services industry. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Transition to an Independent Public Company
Prior to our initial public offering in August 2016 (“IPO”), we were an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of BNP Paribas (“BNPP”), a global financial institution based in France.
On April 1, 2016, BNPP effected a series of transactions (“Reorganization Transactions”) pursuant to which FHI, which was then known as BancWest Corporation (“BancWest”), contributed Bank of the West (“BOW”), its subsidiary at the time, to BancWest Holding Inc. (“BWHI”), a newly formed bank holding company and a wholly owned subsidiary of BancWest. Following the contribution of BOW to BWHI, BancWest distributed its interest in BWHI to BNPP, and BWHI became a wholly owned subsidiary of BNPP. As part of these transactions, we amended our certificate of incorporation to change our name to First Hawaiian, Inc., with First Hawaiian Bank remaining our only direct wholly owned subsidiary.
On July 1, 2016, we became an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of BNP Paribas USA, Inc. (“BNP Paribas USA”), BNPP’s U.S. intermediate holding company. As part of that reorganization, we became a direct wholly owned subsidiary of BancWest Corporation (“BWC”), a direct wholly owned subsidiary of BNP Paribas USA.
In August 2016, FHI completed its IPO and shares of FHI’s common stock began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market (“NASDAQ”) under the ticker symbol “FHB” on August 4, 2016.
In 2017, 2018 and 2019, BNPP, acting through BWC, sold all of the shares of FHI common stock that it beneficially owned in underwritten public offerings and share repurchases by the Company. FHI did not receive any of the proceeds from the sales of shares of FHI common stock in any such offering or the IPO. As a result of the completion of the February 1, 2019 public offering, BNPP (through BWC, the selling stockholder) fully exited its ownership interest in FHI common stock.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management’s best knowledge of current events, actual results may differ from these estimates.
Variable Interest Entities
A variable interest entity (“VIE”) is a legal entity that lacks the ability to financially support its activities or whose equity investors lack the ability to control its activities or absorb profits and losses proportionately with their investment in the entity. The primary beneficiary consolidates the VIE. The primary beneficiary is defined as the enterprise that has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE.
The Company has a limited partnership interest or is a member in a limited liability company (“LLC”) in several low-income housing partnerships. These partnerships or LLCs provide funds for the construction and operation of apartment complexes that provide affordable housing to that segment of the population with lower family income. If these developments successfully attract a specified percentage of residents falling in that lower income range, state and/or federal income tax credits are made available to the partners or members. The tax credits are generally recognized over 5 or 10 years. In order to continue receiving the tax credits each year over the life of the partnership or LLC, the low-income residency targets must be maintained.
The Company generally accounts for its interests in these low-income housing partnerships using the proportional amortization method. Unfunded commitments to fund these investments were $89.0 million and $102.8 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. These unfunded commitments are unconditional and legally binding and are recorded in other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets.
These low-income housing partnership and LLC entities meet the definition of a VIE; however, the Company is not the primary beneficiary of the entities, as the general partner or managing member has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of the entities and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be significant to the entities. While the partnership or LLC agreements allow the limited partners and members, through a majority vote, to remove the general partner or managing member, this right is not deemed to be substantive as the general partner or managing member can only be removed for cause.
Cash and Due from Banks
Cash and due from banks include amounts due from other financial institutions as well as in-transit clearings. Because amounts due from other financial institutions often exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) deposit insurance limit, the Company evaluates the credit risk of these institutions through periodic review of their financial condition and regulatory capital position. Under the terms of the Depository Institutions Deregulation and Monetary Control Act, the Company is required to maintain reserves with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (“FRB”) based on the amount of deposits held. The average amount of cash reserves required was $18.4 million and $67.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks and interest-bearing deposits in other banks. All amounts are readily convertible to cash and have maturities of less than 90 days.
Interest-bearing Deposits in Other Banks
Interest-bearing deposits in other banks include funds held in other financial institutions that are either fixed or variable rate instruments, including certificates of deposits. Interest income is recorded when earned and presented within other interest income in the Company’s consolidated statements of income.
Investment Securities
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, investment securities were primarily comprised of debt, mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations issued by the U.S. Government, its agencies and government-sponsored enterprises. The Company amortizes premiums and accretes discounts using the interest method over the expected lives of the individual securities. Premiums on callable debt securities are amortized to their earliest call date. All investment securities transactions are recorded on a trade-date basis. All of the Company’s investment securities were categorized as available-for-sale as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. Available-for-sale investment securities are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains and losses realized on sales of investment securities are determined using the specific identification method.
For available-for-sale debt securities in an unrealized loss position, the Company first assesses whether it intends to sell, or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis. If either of the criteria regarding intent or requirement to sell is met, the security’s amortized cost basis is written down to fair value through income. For available-for-sale debt securities that do not meet the aforementioned criteria, the Company evaluates at the individual security level whether the decline in fair value has resulted from credit losses or other factors. In making this assessment, management considers the extent to which fair value is less than amortized cost and adverse conditions specifically related to the security, among other factors. If this assessment indicates that a credit loss exists, the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the security is compared to the amortized cost basis of the security. If the present value of cash flows expected to be collected is less than the amortized cost basis, a credit loss exists and an allowance for credit losses is recorded for the credit loss, limited by the amount that the fair value is less than the amortized cost basis. Any impairment that has not been recorded through an allowance for credit losses is recognized in other comprehensive income.
Changes in the allowance for credit losses, if any, are recorded as a provision for (or reversal of) credit losses. Losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of an available-for-sale investment security is confirmed or when either of the criteria regarding intent or requirement to sell is met. As noted above, as of December 31, 2020, the Company’s available-for-sale investment securities were comprised entirely of debt, mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations issued by the U.S. Government, its agencies and government-sponsored enterprises. Management has concluded that the long history with no credit losses from these issuers indicates an expectation that nonpayment of the amortized cost basis is zero. The Company’s available-for-sale investment securities are explicitly or implicitly fully guaranteed by the U.S. government. The U.S. government can print its own currency and its currency is routinely held by central banks and other major financial institutions. The dollar is used in international commerce, and commonly is viewed as a reserve currency, all of which qualitatively indicates that historical credit loss information should be minimally affected by current conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts. Thus, the Company has not recorded an allowance for credit losses for its available-for-sale debt securities as of December 31, 2020.
Accrued interest receivable related to available-for-sale investment securities was $10.6 million as of December 31, 2020 and is recorded separately from the amortized cost basis of investment securities on the Company's consolidated balance sheet.
Loans Held for Sale
The Company originates certain loans for individual sale or for sale as a pool of loans to government-sponsored enterprises. Loans held for sale are carried, on an aggregate basis, at the lower of cost or fair value. The fair value of loans held for sale is primarily determined based on quoted prices for similar loans in active markets. Net gains and losses on loan sales are recorded as a component of other noninterest income. Direct loan origination costs and fees are deferred at origination of the loan and are recognized in other noninterest income upon sale of the loan.
Loans and Leases
Loans are reported at amortized cost, which includes the principal amount outstanding net of unamortized and unaccreted deferred loan fees and costs, and cumulative net charge-offs. Interest income is recognized on an accrual basis. Loan origination fees, certain direct costs and unearned discounts and premiums, if any, are deferred and are generally accreted or amortized into interest income as yield adjustments using the interest method over the contractual life of the loan. Other credit-related fees are recognized as fee income, a component of noninterest income, when earned.
Direct financing leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments receivable plus the estimated residual value of leased property, less unearned income. Unearned income on direct financing leases is amortized over the lease term by methods that approximate the interest method. Residual values on leased assets are periodically reviewed for impairment.
Accrued interest receivable related to loans and leases was $59.0 million as of December 31, 2020 and is recorded separately from the amortized cost basis of loans and leases on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet.
Nonaccrual Loans and Leases
The Company generally places a loan or lease on nonaccrual status when management believes that collection of principal or interest has become doubtful or when a loan or lease becomes 90 days past due as to principal or interest, unless it is well secured and in the process of collection. A full or partial charge-off is recorded in the period in which the loan or lease is deemed uncollectible. When the Company places a loan or lease on nonaccrual status, previously accrued and uncollected interest is concurrently reversed against interest income. When the Company receives an interest payment on a nonaccrual loan or lease, the payment is applied as a reduction of the principal balance. Nonaccrual loans and leases are generally returned to accrual status when they become current as to principal and interest and future payments are reasonably assured.
Troubled Debt Restructurings
A restructuring of debt constitutes a troubled debt restructuring (“TDR”) if the Company, for economic or legal reasons related to the debtor’s financial difficulties, grants a concession to the debtor that it would not otherwise consider. The Company offers various types of concessions when modifying a loan, including term extensions, temporary deferral of principal and temporary interest rate reductions. However, forgiveness of principal is rarely granted. Generally, a non-accrual loan that has been modified in a TDR remains on non-accrual status for at least six months to demonstrate that the borrower is able to meet the terms of the modified loan. However, performance prior to the modification, or significant events that coincide with the modification, are included in assessing whether the borrower can meet the new terms and may result in the loan being returned to accrual status at the time of loan modification or after a shorter performance period. However, if the borrower’s ability to meet the revised payment terms is uncertain, the loan remains on non-accrual status.
In response to the Coronavirus Disease 2019 (“COVID-19”) pandemic, on March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) was signed into law. The CARES Act creates a forbearance program for federally backed mortgage loans, protects borrowers from negative credit reporting due to loan accommodations related to the National Emergency, and provides financial institutions the option to temporarily suspend certain requirements under GAAP related to TDRs for a limited period of time to account for the effects of COVID-19. Financial institutions accounting for eligible loans under the CARES Act are not required to report such loans as TDRs in accordance with GAAP. In addition, Interagency Statements were issued on March 22, 2020 and April 7, 2020 to encourage financial institutions to work prudently with borrowers and to describe the agencies’ interpretation of how current accounting rules under GAAP apply to certain COVID-19 related modifications. The agencies confirmed with the FASB that short-term modifications (e.g., six months or less) for payment deferrals, fee waivers, extensions of repayment terms, or delays in payment that are insignificant and made on a good faith basis in response to borrowers impacted by COVID-19 who were current prior to any relief are not TDRs under GAAP. The agencies also confirmed that these short-term modifications generally should not be reported as being on nonaccrual status and generally should not be considered past due during the period of the deferral. The Company has adopted the provisions of both the CARES Act and Interagency Statements. The Company is first applying the CARES Act guidance in determining if certain loan modifications are not required to be reported as TDRs. If the loan modification does not qualify under the CARES Act, then the Interagency Statement guidance is applied. On December 27, 2020, the Consolidated Appropriations Act - 2021 (the “CAA”) was signed into law, which extends the temporary relief from TDR reporting through the earlier of (1) January 1, 2022, or (2) 60 days after the date on which the national emergency concerning COVID-19 terminates. The disclosures presented within “Note 5. Allowance for Credit Losses” reflects the application of this guidance.
Allowance for Credit Losses
The allowance for credit losses for loans and leases (the “ACL”) is a valuation account that is deducted from the amortized cost basis of loans and leases to present the net amount expected to be collected from loans and leases. Loans and leases are charged-off against the ACL when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan or lease balance is confirmed. Expected recoveries do not exceed the aggregate of amounts previously charged-off and expected to be charged-off. The Company’s ACL and the reserve for unfunded commitments under the Current Expected Credit Losses (“CECL”) approach utilizes both quantitative and qualitative components. The Company’s methodology utilizes a quantitative model based on a single forward-looking macroeconomic forecast. The quantitative estimation is overlaid with qualitative adjustments to account for current conditions and forward-looking events not captured in the quantitative model. Qualitative adjustments that are considered include adjustments for regulatory determinants, model limitations, model maturity, and other current or forecasted events that are not captured in the Company’s historical loss experience.
The Company generally evaluates loans and leases on a collective or pool basis when similar risk characteristics exist. However, loans and leases that do not share similar risk characteristics are evaluated on an individual basis. Such loans and leases evaluated individually are excluded from the collective evaluation. Individually assessed loans are measured for estimated credit loss (“ECL”) based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate or the fair value of the collateral, less estimated selling costs, if the loan is collateral-dependent.
Management reviews relevant available information, from internal and external sources, relating to past events, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts about the future. Historical credit loss experience provides the basis for the estimation of expected credit losses. Adjustments to historical loss information are made for differences in current loan-specific risk characteristics such as differences in underwriting standards, portfolio mix, delinquency levels, or term as well as for changes in environmental conditions, such as changes in unemployment rates, property values, or other relevant factors.
The Company utilizes a Probability of Default (“PD”)/Loss Given Default (“LGD”) framework to estimate the ACL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. The PD represents the percentage expectation to default, measured by assessing loans and leases that migrate to default status (i.e., nonaccrual status, troubled debt restructurings (“TDRs”), 90 days or more past due, partial or full charge-offs or bankruptcy). LGD is defined as the percentage of the exposure at default (“EAD”) lost at the time of default, net of any recoveries, and will be unique to each of the collateral types securing the Company’s loans. PD and LGD’s are based on past experience of the Company and management’s expectations of the future. The ECL on loans and leases is calculated by taking the product of the credit exposure, lifetime default probability (“LDP”) and the LGD.
The ECL model is applied to current credit exposures at the account level, using assumptions calibrated at the portfolio segment level using internal historical loan and lease level data. The Company estimates the default risk of a credit exposure over the remaining life of each account using a transition probability matrix approach which captures both the average rate of up/down-grade and default transitions, as well as withdrawal rates which capture the historical rate of exposure decline due to loan and lease amortization and prepayment. To apply the transition matrices, each credit exposure’s remaining life is split into two time segments. The first time segment is for the reasonable and supportable forecast period over which the transition matrices which are applied have been adjusted to incorporate current and forecasted conditions over that period. Management has determined that using a one year time horizon for the reasonable and supportable forecast period for all classes of loans and leases is a reasonable forecast horizon given the difficulty in predicting future economic conditions with a high degree of certainty. The second time segment is the reversion period from the end of the reasonable and supportable forecast period to the maturity of the exposure, over which long-run average transition matrices are applied. Management elected to use an immediate reversion to the mean approach. Lifetime loss rates are applied against the amortized cost basis of loans and leases and unfunded commitments to estimate the ACL and the reserve for unfunded commitments, respectively.
On at least a quarterly basis, management convenes the Bank’s forecasting team which is responsible for forecasting the economic outlook over the reasonable and supportable forecast period within the context of forecasting credit losses. Management reviews local and national economic forecasts and other pertinent materials to inform the team in establishing their best estimate of the economic outlook over the reasonable and supportable forecast period. The team considers unemployment rates, gross domestic product, personal income per capita, visitor arrivals and expenditures and home prices along with other relevant information. The results from the Bank’s forecasting team dictates the direction of the economic forecast compared to current economic conditions (i.e., better or worse) and the magnitude of the forecast adjustment (e.g., mild, medium or severe). The direction of the economic forecast and magnitude are used to adjust the modifier that is applied to the long-run default rates over the reasonable and supportable forecast period.
The Company has identified three portfolio segments in estimating the ACL: commercial, residential real estate and consumer lending. The Company’s commercial portfolio segment is comprised of four distinct classes: commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans and lease financing. The key risk drivers related to this portfolio segment include risk rating, collateral type, and remaining maturity. The Company’s residential real estate portfolio segment is comprised of two distinct classes: residential real estate loans and home equity lines of credit. Specific risk characteristics related to this portfolio include the value of the underlying collateral, credit score and remaining maturity. Finally, the Company’s consumer portfolio segment is not further segmented, but consists primarily of automobile loans, credit cards and other installment loans. Automobile loans constitute the majority of this segment and are monitored using credit scores, collateral values and remaining maturity. The remainder of the consumer portfolio is predominantly unsecured.
Reserve for Unfunded Commitments
The Company estimates expected credit losses over the contractual period in which the Company is exposed to credit risk via a contractual obligation to extend credit, unless that obligation is unconditionally cancellable by the Company. The reserve for unfunded commitments, which is a component of other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets, is adjusted through the provision for credit losses. The estimate includes consideration of the likelihood that funding will occur and an estimate of expected credit losses on commitments expected to be funded over its estimated life.
Provision for Credit Losses
The provision for credit losses (the “Provision”) represents the amount charged against current period earnings to achieve an ACL and reserve for unfunded commitments that in management’s judgment is adequate to absorb expected credit losses related to the Company’s loan and lease portfolio and off-balance sheet credit exposures. Accordingly, the Provision will vary from period to period based on management’s ongoing assessment of the overall adequacy of the ACL and reserve for unfunded commitments.
Premises and Equipment
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 7 to 39 years for premises, 3 to 20 years for equipment and the shorter of the lease term or remaining useful life for leasehold improvements.
On a periodic basis, long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value and is not recoverable. An impairment analysis is performed whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying value of an asset or group of assets may not be recoverable.
Operating lease rental income for leased assets, primarily premises, is recognized on a straight-line basis as an offset to rental expense.
Other Real Estate Owned and Repossessed Personal Property
Other real estate owned (“OREO”) and repossessed personal property are comprised primarily of properties that the Company acquires through foreclosure proceedings. The Company values these properties at fair value less estimated costs to sell the property upon acquisition, which establishes the new carrying value. The Company charges losses arising upon the acquisition of the property against the ACL. If the fair value of the property at the time of acquisition exceeds the carrying amount of the loan, the excess is recorded either as a recovery to the ACL if a charge-off had previously been recorded, or as a gain on initial transfer in other noninterest income. After acquisition, the Company carries such properties at the lower of cost or fair value less estimated selling costs on a nonrecurring basis. Any write-downs or losses from the subsequent disposition of such properties are included in other noninterest expense. Gains recognized on the sale of such properties are included in other noninterest income.
Goodwill
Goodwill represents the cost of acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of the net assets acquired. The Company performs impairment testing of goodwill, an indefinite-lived intangible asset, as required under GAAP on an annual basis or when circumstances change that indicate that a potential impairment may have occurred. The Company has assigned goodwill to its operating segments for impairment testing purposes. The goodwill impairment guidance provides the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, an entity determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing further impairment tests is unnecessary. However, if an entity concludes otherwise, or does not elect this option, it is required to perform impairment testing. The quantitative impairment test identifies potential impairments at the reporting unit level by comparing the estimated fair value of each identified reporting unit to its carrying amount. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount,
there is no impairment of goodwill. However, if the carrying amount exceeds the estimated fair value, an impairment exists, and an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. Subsequent reversals of goodwill impairment are prohibited.
Mortgage Servicing Rights
Mortgage servicing rights are recognized as assets when residential mortgage loans are sold and the rights to service those loans are retained. Mortgage servicing rights are initially recorded at fair value by using a discounted cash flow model to calculate the present value of estimated future net servicing income, incorporating assumptions that market participants would use in their estimates of fair value.
The Company’s mortgage servicing rights are accounted for under the amortization method and periodically assessed for impairment. The Company amortizes the mortgage servicing rights over the period of estimated net servicing income, taking into account prepayment assumptions. Any such indicated impairment is recognized in earnings during the period in which the impairment occurs. Mortgage servicing income, net of the amortization of mortgage servicing rights, is recorded as a component of other noninterest income in the consolidated statements of income.
Non-Marketable Equity Securities
The Company is required to own Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Des Moines stock as a condition of membership. These securities are accounted for under the cost method, which equals par value, and are included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets. These securities do not have a readily determinable fair value as ownership is restricted and there is no market for these securities. The Company reviews these securities periodically for impairment. Management considers these securities to be long-term investments. Accordingly, when evaluating these securities for impairment, management considers the ultimate recoverability of the par value rather than recognizing temporary declines in value. No impairment was recognized on non-marketable equity securities for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
The Company has a qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan, an unfunded supplemental executive retirement plan, a directors’ retirement plan, a non-qualified pension plan for eligible directors and a postretirement benefit plan providing life insurance and healthcare benefits that is offered to directors and employees, as applicable. The qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plan, the unfunded supplemental executive retirement plan and the directors’ retirement plan are all frozen plans to new participants. To calculate annual pension costs, management uses the following key variables: (1) size of the employee population, length of service and estimated compensation increases; (2) actuarial assumptions and estimates; (3) expected long-term rate of return on plan assets; and (4) discount rate. For all pension and postretirement benefit plan calculations, the Company uses a December 31st measurement date.
The expected long-term rate of return was based on a calculated rate of return from average rates of return on various asset classes over a 20-year historical time horizon. Using long-term historical data allows the Company to capture multiple economic environments, which management believes is relevant when using historical returns. Net actuarial gains or losses that exceed a 5% corridor of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the fair value of plan assets as of the beginning of the year are amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic pension cost on a straight-line basis over five years.
In estimating the projected benefit obligation, an independent actuary bases assumptions on factors such as mortality rate, turnover rate, retirement rate, disability rate and other assumptions related to the population of individuals in the pension plan. If significant actuarial gains or losses occur, the actuary reviews the demographic and economic assumptions with management, at which time the Company considers revising these assumptions based on actual results.
The Company recognizes an asset on its consolidated balance sheets for a plan’s overfunded status or a liability for a plan’s underfunded status. The Company also measures the plans’ assets and obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the year and recognizes those changes in other comprehensive income, net of tax. Periodic pension expense (or income) includes service costs, interest costs based on the assumed discount rate, the expected return on plan assets based on an actuarially derived market-related value and amortization of actuarial gains and losses. Service cost is included in salaries and employee benefits expense, while all other components of net periodic pension cost are included in other noninterest expense in the consolidated statements of income.
Income Taxes
Current income tax expense is recognized for the amount of income taxes expected to be payable or refundable for the current period, and deferred income taxes are provided to reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax basis of assets and liabilities. Deferred income taxes are calculated by applying enacted statutory tax rates and tax laws to future years in which temporary differences are expected to reverse. The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities from a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that the tax rate change is enacted. A deferred tax valuation allowance is established if it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized. Interest and penalties, if any, expected to be assessed or refunded by taxing authorities relating to an underpayment or overpayment of income taxes are accrued and recorded as part of income tax expense.
Excise tax credits relating to premises and equipment are accounted for using the flow-through method, and the benefit is recognized in the year the asset is placed in service. General business and excise tax credits generated from the leasing portfolio, except for credits that are passed on to lessees, are recognized over the term of the lease for book purposes, but in the year placed in service for tax purposes.
The Company maintains reserves for unrecognized tax benefits that arise in the normal course of business. As of December 31, 2020, these positions were evaluated based on an assessment of probabilities as to the likelihood of whether a liability had been incurred. Such assessments are reviewed as events occur and adjustments to the reserves are made as appropriate. In evaluating a tax position for recognition, the Company evaluates whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. If the tax position meets the more likely than not recognition threshold, the tax position is measured and recognized in the Company’s consolidated financial statements as the largest amount of tax benefit that, in management’s judgment, is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
Derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheets at fair value. On the date the Company enters into a derivative contract, the Company designates the derivative instrument as: (1) a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (“fair value hedge”); (2) a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (“cash flow hedge”); or (3) held for trading, customer accommodation or not qualifying for hedge accounting (“free-standing derivative instrument”).
For a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument and changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment attributable to interest rate risk are recorded in current period earnings.
For a cash flow hedge, to the extent that the hedge is considered highly effective, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in other comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to net income in the same period that the hedged transaction impacts net income. For free-standing derivative instruments, changes in fair values are reported in current period earnings.
The Company formally documents the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process includes linking all derivative instruments that are designated as hedges to specific assets or liabilities, unrecognized firm commitments or forecasted transactions. The Company also formally assesses, both at the inception of a hedge and on a quarterly basis, whether the derivative instruments used are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values of, or cash flows related to, hedged items.
Fair Value Measurements
Fair value measurements apply whenever GAAP requires or permits assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value either on a recurring or nonrecurring basis. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for an asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value is based on the assumptions that management believes market participants would use when pricing an asset or liability. Fair value measurement and disclosure guidance established a three-level fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the use of inputs used in valuation methodologies. Management maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when determining fair value measurements.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company grants stock-based awards, including restricted stock, restricted shares, performance share units, performance shares and restricted stock units. These awards are issued at no cost to the recipient. The fair value of restricted stock, restricted shares and restricted stock unit awards was based on the closing price of FHI’s common stock on the date of grant. Such awards were recognized in the Company’s consolidated statements of income on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Recipients of performance shares and performance share units are entitled to receive shares of FHI common stock at no cost, subject to the Company’s achievement of specified market or performance conditions. The grant date fair value of the performance share units subject to the Company’s achievement of specified market conditions was estimated using a Monte Carlo simulation model. For purposes of this modeling exercise, historical volatilities of FHI common stock and members of the peer group were used. The risk-free interest rate that was used in the valuation was that of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury note that was commensurate with the performance period. The grant date fair value of the performance shares subject to the Company’s achievement of performance conditions was based on the closing price of FHI’s common stock on the date of grant.
As compensation cost is recognized, a deferred tax asset is established which represents an estimate of the future tax deduction from the release of restrictions or the achievement of performance targets. At the time that restrictions on the stock-based awards are released, the Company may be required to recognize an adjustment to income tax expense, depending on the market price of the Company’s common stock at that time.
Treasury Stock
Shares of the Parent’s common stock that were repurchased or that are used to satisfy payroll tax withholdings related to stock-based compensation are recorded in treasury stock at cost. On the date of subsequent reissuance, the treasury stock account will be reduced by the cost of such stock on a first-in, first-out basis.
Earnings per Share
Basic earnings per share are computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share are computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period, assuming conversion of potentially dilutive common stock equivalents.
Advertising and Marketing Costs
Advertising and marketing costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising and marketing costs were $5.7 million, $6.9 million and $4.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Accounting Standards Adopted in 2020
In June 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326), Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. This guidance eliminates the probable recognition threshold for credit losses on financial assets measured at amortized cost. For loans and held-to-maturity debt securities, this guidance requires a CECL approach to determine an ACL. CECL requires loss estimates for the remaining estimated life of the financial asset using historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts. CECL also applies to off-balance sheet (“OBS”) credit exposures (e.g., unfunded loan commitments), except for unconditionally cancellable commitments. In addition, this guidance modifies the other-than-temporary-impairment model for available-for-sale debt securities to require an allowance for credit losses instead of a direct write-down, which allows for a reversal of credit losses in future periods. In April 2019, the FASB also issued ASU No. 2019-04, Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments. As it relates to CECL, this guidance amended certain provisions contained in ASU No. 2016-13, particularly with regards to the inclusion of accrued interest in the definition of amortized cost, as well as clarifying that extension and renewal options that are not unconditionally cancelable by the entity that are included in the original or modified contract should be considered in the entity’s determination of expected credit losses. As permitted by ASU No. 2016-13, the Company elected the practical expedient to use the fair value of collateral at the reporting date when recording the net carrying amount of the asset and determining the ACL for a financial asset for which the repayment is expected to be provided substantially through the operation or sale of the collateral when the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty based on the Company’s assessment as of the reporting date. Furthermore, as permitted by ASU No. 2019-04, the Company made accounting policy elections to not measure an ACL on accrued interest receivable, write-off accrued interest receivable by reversing interest income and present accrued interest receivable separately from the related financial asset on the balance sheet.
The implementation of CECL required significant operational changes, particularly in data collection and analysis. The Company formed a working group comprised of teams from different disciplines, including credit, finance and information technology, to evaluate the requirements of the new standard and the impact it will have on the Company’s existing processes. The Company also engaged a software vendor and had run several CECL parallel run productions during 2019. The Company adopted the provisions of ASU No. 2016-13 and related amendments by recording a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of January 1, 2020. Note that the Company did not opt to delay the implementation of CECL requirements as permitted under the CARES Act, which allowed entities to delay implementation until the earlier of (1) December 31, 2020, or (2) the date on which the national emergency concerning COVID-19 terminates.
The following table presents the impact of adopting Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 326 as of January 1, 2020:
(1)The reserve for unfunded commitments is included as a component of other liabilities in the Company's consolidated balance sheets.
In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350), Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment. This guidance simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the current two-step goodwill impairment test. This guidance provides that a goodwill impairment test be conducted by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. Entities are to recognize an impairment charge for goodwill by the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value. Entities will continue to have the option to perform the qualitative assessment for a reporting unit to determine if the quantitative impairment test is necessary. The Company adopted the provisions of ASU No. 2017-04 on January 1, 2020 and it did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement. This guidance is a part of the FASB’s disclosure framework project to improve disclosure effectiveness. This guidance eliminates certain disclosure requirements for fair value measurements: the amount of and reasons for transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy, an entity’s policy for the timing of transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy and an entity’s valuation processes for Level 3 fair value measurements. This guidance also adds new disclosure requirements for public entities: changes in unrealized gains and losses for the period included in other comprehensive income for recurring Level 3 fair value measurements of instruments held at the end of the reporting period, and the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop recurring and nonrecurring Level 3 fair value measurements, including how the weighted average is calculated. Furthermore, this guidance modifies certain requirements which will involve disclosing: transfers into and out of Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, purchases and issuances of Level 3 assets and liabilities, and information about the measurement uncertainty of Level 3 fair value measurements as of the reporting date. The Company adopted the provisions of ASU No. 2018-13 on January 1, 2020 and it did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. See “Note 22. Fair Value” for required disclosures related to this new guidance.
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-14, Compensation - Retirement Benefits - Defined Benefit Plans - General (Subtopic 715-20), Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Defined Benefit Plans. This guidance is a part of the FASB’s disclosure framework project to improve disclosure effectiveness. This guidance makes minor changes to the disclosure requirements for employers that sponsor defined benefit pension and/or other postretirement benefit plans. The new guidance removes certain disclosures that are no longer considered cost beneficial, clarifies the specific requirements of certain disclosures, and adds certain new disclosure requirements the FASB has identified as relevant. The Company adopted the provisions of ASU No. 2018-14 on January 1, 2020 and it did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. See “Note 15. Benefit Plans” for required disclosures related to this new guidance.
In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-04, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848), Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting. The relief provided by this guidance is elective and applies to all entities, subject to meeting certain criteria, that have contracts, hedging relationships, and other transactions that reference the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) or another reference rate expected to be discontinued because of reference rate reform. The guidance provides that changes in contract terms that are made to effect the reference rate reform transition are considered related to the replacement of a reference rate if they are not the result of a business decision that is separate from or in addition to changes to the terms of a contract to effect that transition. If certain criteria are met, entities can elect to not apply certain modification accounting requirements to contracts affected by reference rate reform. For example, an entity that makes this election would not be required to remeasure the contracts at the modification date or reassess a previous accounting determination. The optional amendments in ASU No. 2020-04 are effective for all entities as of March 12, 2020 through December 31, 2022. As permitted by ASU No. 2020-04, for all contract modifications that meet the stated criteria, as of October 1, 2020, the Company has elected the optional expedients to not apply certain modification accounting requirements to contracts affected by reference rate reform.
In January 2021, the FASB issued ASU No. 2021-01, Reference Rate Reform (Topic 848), Scope. The amendments in this guidance refine the scope of Topic 848 and clarify that certain optional expedients and exceptions in Topic 848 for contract modifications and hedge accounting also apply to derivative instruments that use an interest rate for margining, discounting, or contract price alignment that is modified as a result of reference rate reform (commonly referred to as the “discounting transition”). ASU No. 2021-01 expands the scope of Topic 848 to also include certain derivative instruments that do not reference LIBOR or a reference rate that is expected to be discontinued, but that are being modified as a result of the discounting transition. If certain criteria are met, similar to the relief described in ASU No. 2020-04, entities can elect to not apply certain contract modification accounting requirements to derivative instruments
that are affected by the discounting transition. For example, an entity that makes this election would not be required to remeasure the contracts at the modification date or reassess a previous accounting determination. The optional expedients in ASU No. 2021-01 are effective for all entities as of March 12, 2020 through December 31, 2022. As permitted by ASU No. 2021-01, for all contract modifications to derivative instruments that meet the stated criteria, as of October 1, 2020, the Company has elected the optional expedients to not apply certain contract modification accounting requirements to derivative instruments affected by the discounting transition.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
The following ASU has been issued by the FASB and is applicable to the Company in future reporting periods.
In October 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-08, Codification Improvements to Subtopic 310-20, Receivables - Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs. Prior to the adoption of ASU No. 2020-08, previous guidance shortened the amortization period for certain purchased callable debt securities held at a premium by requiring that entities amortize the premium associated with those callable debt securities to the earliest call date. The guidance in ASU No. 2020-08 changes the amortization period so that an entity shall amortize the premium to the next call date. The Company adopted the provisions of ASU No. 2020-08 on January 1, 2021 and it did not have a material impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements.
2. Transactions with Affiliates and Related Parties
In the normal course of business, the Company makes loans to executive officers and directors of the Company and its subsidiary and to entities and individuals affiliated with those executive officers and directors. These loans are made on terms no less favorable to the Company than those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unrelated persons or, in the case of certain residential real estate loans, on terms that are widely available to employees of the Company who are not directors or executive officers.
Changes in the loans to such executive officers, directors and affiliates during 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows:
The Company had participated in various transactions with BWC, BOW, BNPP and its affiliates, in each case while such entities were affiliates and related parties of the Company. These transactions were subject to review by the FRB, FDIC and other regulatory authorities. The transactions were required to be on terms at least as favorable to the Company as those prevailing at the time for similar non-affiliate transactions. These transactions included the provision of services, sales and purchases of assets, foreign exchange activities, financial guarantees, international services, interest rate swaps and intercompany deposits and borrowings.
The Company participated in forward and spot transactions with BOW (which ceased being an affiliate of the Company in February 2019) as the counterparty.
The Company’s transactions with its related parties as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are summarized below.
The Company had no other liabilities with affiliates and no off-balance sheet commitments with affiliates to purchase and sell foreign currencies as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
The Company did not transact in hedging or trading activities on behalf of BOW or BWC, in each case while such entities were affiliates and related parties of the Company.
In 2016, BWC and the Company entered into an Expense Reimbursement Agreement whereby BWC agreed to reimburse the Company for certain expenses incurred by the Company that are provided for the ultimate benefit of BNPP and its subsidiaries. Payments received from BWC amounted to $7.2 million and $14.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Expenses incurred by the Company after 2019 are not subject to reimbursement by BWC under the Expense Reimbursement Agreement.
3. Investment Securities
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, investment securities consisted predominantly of the following investment categories:
U.S. Treasury and debt securities - includes U.S. Treasury notes and debt securities issued by government-sponsored enterprises.
Mortgage-backed securities - includes securities backed by notes or receivables secured by mortgage assets with cash flows based on actual or scheduled payments.
Collateralized mortgage obligations - includes securities backed by a pool of mortgages with cash flows distributed based on certain rules rather than pass through payments.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, all of the Company’s investment securities were classified as debt securities and available-for-sale. Amortized cost and fair value of securities as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:
Proceeds from call and sales of investment securities were $102.0 million and $543.0 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2020. Proceeds from call and sales of investment securities were $63.0 million and $1.0 billion, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2019. Proceeds from both calls and sales of investment securities were nil for the year ended December 31, 2018. The Company recorded gross realized gains of $0.6 million and gross realized losses of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company recorded gross realized gains of $0.5 million and gross realized losses of $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The Company recorded no gross realized gains and no gross realized losses for the year ended December 31, 2018. The income tax benefit related to the Company’s net realized loss on the sale of investment securities was nil for the year ended December 31, 2020. The income tax benefit related to the Company’s net realized loss on the sale of investment securities was $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The income tax expense related to the Company’s net realized gains on the sale of investment securities was nil during the year ended December 31, 2018. Gains and losses realized on sales of securities are determined using the specific identification method.
Interest income from taxable investment securities was $80.9 million, $92.5 million and $106.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Interest income from non-taxable investment securities was $0.9 million, nil and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
The amortized cost and fair value of debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury and government agencies as of December 31, 2020, by contractual maturity, are shown below. Mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are disclosed separately in the table below as remaining expected maturities will differ from contractual maturities as borrowers have the right to prepay obligations.
At December 31, 2020, pledged securities totaled $2.4 billion, of which $2.3 billion was pledged to secure public deposits and $186.1 million was pledged to secure other financial transactions. At December 31, 2019, pledged securities totaled $1.8 billion, of which $1.5 billion was pledged to secure public deposits and $242.3 million was pledged to secure other financial transactions.
The Company held no securities of any single issuer, other than debt securities issued by the U.S. government, government agencies and government-sponsored enterprises, which were in excess of 10% of stockholders’ equity as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The following table presents the unrealized gross losses and fair values of securities in the available-for-sale portfolio by length of time that the 50 and 118 individual securities in each category have been in a continuous loss position as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The unrealized losses on investment securities were attributable to market conditions. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not have any securities with the intent to sell and determined it was more likely than not that the Company would not be required to sell the securities prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. As the Company had the intent and ability to hold the remaining securities in an unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, each security with an unrealized loss position in the below tables has been further assessed to determine if a credit loss exists. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not expect any credit losses in its debt securities and no credit losses were recognized on securities during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Visa Class B Restricted Shares
In 2008, the Company received 394,000 Visa Class B restricted shares as part of Visa’s initial public offering. Visa Class B restricted shares are not currently convertible to publicly traded Visa Class A common shares, and only transferable in limited circumstances, until the settlement of certain litigation which are indemnified by Visa members, including the Company. As there are existing transfer restrictions and the outcome of the aforementioned litigation is uncertain, these shares were included in the consolidated balance sheets at their historical cost of $0.
In 2016, the Company recorded a $22.7 million net realized gain related to the sale of 274,000 Visa Class B restricted shares. Concurrent with the sale of the Visa Class B restricted shares, the Company entered into an agreement with the buyer that requires payment to the buyer in the event Visa reduces each member bank’s Class B conversion rate to unrestricted Class A common shares. On June 28, 2018, Visa additionally funded its litigation escrow account, thereby reducing each member bank’s Class B conversion rate to unrestricted Class A common shares. Accordingly, on July 5, 2018, Visa announced a decrease in conversion rate from 1.6483 to 1.6298 effective June 28, 2018. In July 2018, the Company made a payment of approximately $0.7 million to the buyer as a result of the reduction in the Visa Class B conversion rate. On September 27, 2019, Visa additionally funded its litigation escrow account, thereby further reducing each member bank’s Class B conversion rate to unrestricted Class A common shares. Accordingly, on September 30, 2019, Visa announced a decrease in conversion rate from 1.6298 to 1.6228, effective September 27, 2019. In October 2019, the Company made a payment of approximately $0.3 million to the buyer as a result of the reduction in the Visa Class B conversion rate. See “Note 17. Derivative Financial Instruments” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information.
The Company held approximately 120,000 Visa Class B restricted shares as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019. These shares continued to be carried at $0 cost basis during each of the respective periods.
4. Loans and Leases
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, loans and leases were comprised of the following:
Outstanding loan balances are reported net of deferred loan costs and fees of $26.1 million and $41.0 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
As of December 31, 2020, residential real estate loans totaling $2.9 billion were pledged to collateralize the Company’s borrowing capacity at the FHLB, and consumer, commercial and industrial, commercial real estate and residential mortgage loans totaling $1.9 billion were pledged to collateralize the borrowing capacity at the FRB. As of December 31, 2019, residential real estate loans totaling $2.9 billion were pledged to collateralize the Company’s borrowing capacity at the FHLB, and consumer, commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans totaling $953.2 million were pledged to collateralize the borrowing capacity at the FRB. Residential real estate loans collateralized by properties that were in the process of foreclosure totaled $2.3 million and $4.1 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Net gains related to the sales of loans, recorded as a component of other noninterest income, were $14.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Net losses related to the sales of loans, recorded as a component of other noninterest income, were $1.3 million and $0.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
In the course of evaluating the credit risk presented by a customer and the pricing that will adequately compensate the Company for assuming that risk, management may require a certain amount of collateral support. The type of collateral held varies, but may include accounts receivable, inventory, land, buildings, equipment, income-producing commercial properties and residential real estate. The Company applies the same collateral policy for loans whether they are funded immediately or on a delayed basis. The loan and lease portfolio is principally located in Hawaii and, to a lesser extent, on the U.S. Mainland, Guam and Saipan. The risk inherent in the portfolio depends upon both the economic stability of the state or territories, which affects property values, and the financial strength and creditworthiness of the borrowers.
5. Allowance for Credit Losses
The Company maintains an ACL that is deducted from the amortized cost basis of loans and leases to present the net carrying value of loans and leases expected to be collected. The measurement of expected credit losses is based on relevant information about past events, including historical experience, current conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts that affect the collectibility of the reported amount of loans and leases.
The Company also maintains an estimated reserve for unfunded commitments on the consolidated balance sheets. The reserve for unfunded commitments is reduced in the period in which the off-balance sheet financial instruments expire, loan funding occurs, or is otherwise settled.
Rollforward of the Allowance for Credit Losses
The following presents the activity in the ACL by class of loans and leases for the year ended December 31, 2020:
The following presents the activity in the ACL by class of loans and leases and the disaggregation of the ACL and recorded investment in loans by impairment methodology for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, presented in accordance with Topic 310, Receivables:
Rollforward of the Reserve for Unfunded Commitments
The following presents the activity in the Reserve for Unfunded Commitments for the year ended December 31, 2020:
Credit Quality Information
The Company performs an internal loan review and grading or scoring procedures on an ongoing basis. The review provides management with periodic information as to the quality of the loan portfolio and effectiveness of the Company’s lending policies and procedures. The objective of the loan review and grading or scoring procedures is to identify, in a timely manner, existing or emerging credit quality issues so that appropriate steps can be initiated to avoid or minimize future losses.
Loans and leases subject to grading primarily include: commercial and industrial loans, commercial real estate loans, construction loans and lease financing. Other loans subject to grading include installment loans to businesses or individuals for business and commercial purposes, overdraft lines of credit, commercial credit cards, and other credits as may be determined. Credit quality indicators for internally graded loans and leases are generally updated on an annual basis or on a quarterly basis for those loans and leases deemed to be of potentially higher risk.
An internal credit risk rating system is used to determine loan grade and is based on borrower credit risk and transactional risk. The loan grading process is a mechanism used to determine the risk of a particular borrower and is based on the following factors of a borrower: character, earnings and operating cash flow, asset and liability structure, debt capacity, management and controls, borrowing entity, and industry and operating environment.
Pass - “Pass” (uncriticized) loans and leases are not considered to carry greater than normal risk. The borrower has the apparent ability to satisfy obligations to the Company, and therefore no loss in ultimate collection is anticipated.
Special Mention - Loans and leases that have potential weaknesses that deserves management’s close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for assets or in the institution’s credit position at some future date. Special mention assets are not adversely classified and do not expose an institution to sufficient risk to warrant adverse classification.
Substandard - Loans and leases that are inadequately protected by the current financial condition and paying capacity of the obligor or by any collateral pledged. Loans and leases so classified must have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the collection of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the bank may sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected.
Doubtful - Loans and leases that have weaknesses found in substandard borrowers with the added provision that the weaknesses make collection of debt in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and improbable.
Loss - Loans and leases classified as loss are considered uncollectible and of such little value that their continuance as an asset is not warranted. This classification does not mean that the loan or lease has absolutely no recovery or salvage value, but rather that it is not practical or desirable to defer writing off this basically worthless asset even though partial recovery may be effected in the future.
Loans that are primarily monitored for credit quality using FICO scores include: residential mortgage loans, home equity lines and consumer loans. FICO scores are calculated primarily based on a consideration of payment history, the current amount of debt, the length of credit history available, a recent history of new sources of credit and the mix of credit type. FICO scores are updated on a monthly, quarterly or bi-annual basis, depending on the product type.
The amortized cost basis by year of origination and credit quality indicator of the Company's loans and leases as of December 31, 2020 was as follows:
(continued)
(1)Other credit quality indicators used for monitoring purposes are primarily FICO scores. The majority of the loans in this population were originated to borrowers with a prime FICO score.
(2)Other credit quality indicators used for monitoring purposes are primarily internal risk ratings. The majority of the loans in this population were graded with a “Pass” rating.
(3)No FICO scores are primarily related to loans and leases extended to non-residents. Loans and leases of this nature are primarily secured by collateral and/or are closely monitored for performance.
There were no loans and leases graded as Loss as of December 31, 2020.
The amortized cost basis of revolving loans that were converted to term loans during the year ended December 31, 2020 was as follows:
The credit risk profiles by internally assigned grade for loans and leases as of December 31, 2019, presented in accordance with Topic 310, Receivables, were as follows:
There were no loans and leases graded as Loss as of December 31, 2019.
The credit risk profiles based on payment activity for loans and leases that were not subject to loan grading as of December 31, 2019 presented in accordance with Topic 310, Receivables, were as follows:
Past-Due Status
The Company continually updates its aging analysis for loans and leases to monitor the migration of loans and leases into past due categories. The Company considers loans and leases that are delinquent for 30 days or more to be past due. As of December 31, 2020, the aging analysis of the amortized cost basis of the Company’s past due loans and leases was as follows:
As of December 31, 2019, the aging analysis of the Company’s past due loans and leases, presented in accordance with Topic 310, Receivables, was as follows:
Nonaccrual Loans and Leases
The Company generally places a loan or lease on nonaccrual status when management believes that collection of principal or interest has become doubtful or when a loan or lease becomes 90 days past due as to principal or interest, unless it is well secured and in the process of collection. The Company charges off a loan or lease when facts indicate that the loan or lease is considered uncollectible.
The amortized cost basis of loans and leases on nonaccrual status as of December 31, 2020 and January 1, 2020 and the amortized cost basis of loans and leases on nonaccrual status with no allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2020 were as follows:
For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized interest income of $0.2 million on nonaccrual loans and leases. Furthermore, for the year ended December 31, 2020, the amount of accrued interest receivables written off by reversing interest income was $1.4 million.
Collateral-Dependent Loans and Leases
Collateral-dependent loans and leases are those for which repayment (on the basis of the Company’s assessment as of the reporting date) is expected to be provided substantially through the operation or sale of the collateral and the borrower is experiencing financial difficulty. As of December 31, 2020, the amortized cost basis of collateral-dependent loans was $21.0 million. These loans were primarily collateralized by residential real estate property and borrower assets. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of collateral on substantially all collateral-dependent loans were significantly in excess of their amortized cost basis.
Impaired Loans
The total carrying amounts and the total unpaid principal balances of impaired loans and leases as of December 31, 2019, presented in accordance with Topic 310, Receivables, were as follows:
The following table provides information with respect to the Company’s average balances, and of interest income recognized from, impaired loans for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, presented in accordance with Topic 310, Receivables:
Modifications
Commercial and industrial loans modified in a TDR may involve temporary interest-only payments, term extensions, and converting revolving credit lines to term loans. Modifications of commercial real estate and construction loans in a TDR may involve reducing the interest rate for the remaining term of the loan, extending the maturity date at an interest rate lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk, or substituting or adding a new borrower or guarantor. Modifications of construction loans in a TDR may also involve extending the interest-only payment period. Interest continues to accrue on the missed payments and as a result, the effective yield on the loan remains unchanged. Residential real estate loans modified in a TDR may be comprised of loans where monthly payments are lowered to accommodate the borrowers' financial needs for a period of time, normally two years. Generally, consumer loans are not classified as a TDR as they are normally charged off upon reaching a predetermined delinquency status that ranges from 120 to 180 days and varies by product type.
Loans modified in a TDR may already be on nonaccrual status and in some cases, partial charge-offs may have already been taken against the outstanding loan balance. Loans modified in a TDR are evaluated for impairment. As a result, this may have a financial effect of increasing the specific ACL associated with the loan. An ACL for impaired commercial loans, including commercial real estate and construction loans, that have been modified in a TDR is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate or if the loan is collateral-dependent, the estimated fair value of the collateral, less any selling costs. An ACL for impaired residential real estate loans that have been modified in a TDR is measured based on the estimated fair value of the collateral, less any selling costs. Management exercises significant judgment in developing these estimates.
The following presents, by class, information related to loans modified in a TDR during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(1)The number of contracts does not include TDRs that have been fully paid off, charged off or foreclosed upon by the end of the period.
(2)The recorded investment balances reflect all partial paydowns and charge-offs since the modification date and do not include TDRs that have been fully paid off, charged off or foreclosed upon by the end of the period.
The above loans were modified in a TDR through an extension of maturity dates, temporary interest-only payments, reduced payments or below-market interest rates.
The Company had commitments to extend credit, standby letters of credit and commercial letters of credit totaling $6.1 billion as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019. Of the $6.1 billion at December 31, 2020, there were commitments of $0.2 million related to borrowers who had loan terms modified in a TDR. Of the $6.1 billion at December 31, 2019, there were commitments of $4.5 million related to borrowers who had loan terms modified in a TDR.
The following table presents, by class, loans modified in TDRs that have defaulted in the current period within 12 months of their permanent modification date for the periods indicated. The Company is reporting these defaulted TDRs based on a payment default definition of 30 days past due:
(1)The number of contracts does not include TDRs that have been fully paid off, charged off or foreclosed upon by the end of the period.
(2)The recorded investment balances reflect all partial paydowns and charge-offs since the modification date and do not include TDRs that have been fully paid off, charged off or foreclosed upon by the end of the period.
(3)In 2020, the maturity date for the commercial and industrial loan that subsequently defaulted was extended. In 2019, the commercial and industrial loans that subsequently defaulted were temporarily modified to interest-only payments.
Foreclosure Proceedings
As of December 31, 2020, there were no residential mortgage loans collateralized by real estate property that was modified in a TDR that was in process of foreclosure. As of December 31, 2019, there was one residential mortgage loan collateralized by real estate property of $0.3 million that was modified in a TDR that was in process of foreclosure.
Foreclosed Property
As of December 31, 2020, there were no residential real estate properties held from foreclosed residential real estate loans. Residential real estate properties held from two foreclosed residential mortgage loans included in other real estate owned and repossessed personal property shown in the consolidated balance sheets were $0.3 million as of December 31, 2019.
6. Premises and Equipment
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, premises and equipment were comprised of the following:
Depreciation and amortization expenses included in occupancy and equipment expenses for 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows:
The Company, as a lessor, leases certain properties that it owns. See “Note 14. Leases” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information.
7. Other Assets
Goodwill
Goodwill originated from the acquisition of BancWest by BNPP in December 2001. Goodwill generated in that acquisition was recorded on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets as a result of push-down accounting treatment.
The carrying amount of goodwill reported in two of the Company’s reporting segments as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as shown below. The Treasury and Other segment is not assigned goodwill.
There was no impairment of the Company’s goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Mortgage Servicing Rights (“MSRs”)
Mortgage servicing activities include collecting principal, interest, tax and insurance payments from borrowers while accounting for and remitting payments to investors, taxing authorities and insurance companies. The Company also monitors delinquencies and administers foreclosure proceedings.
Mortgage loan servicing income is recorded in noninterest income as a part of other service charges and fees and amortization of the servicing assets is recorded in noninterest income as part of other income. The unpaid principal amount of residential real estate loans serviced for others was $2.2 billion and $2.3 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Servicing fees include contractually specified fees, late charges and ancillary fees and were $5.7 million, $6.3 million and $7.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
Amortization of MSRs was $6.3 million, $3.6 million and $3.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The estimated future amortization expenses for MSRs over the next five years are as follows:
The details of the Company’s MSRs are presented below:
The following table presents changes in amortized MSRs for the years indicated:
MSRs are evaluated for impairment if events and circumstances indicate a possible impairment. No impairment of MSRs was recorded for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
The quantitative assumptions used in determining the lower of cost or fair value of the Company’s MSRs were as follows:
The sensitivities surrounding MSRs are expected to have an immaterial impact on fair value.
Other
The Company had $170.2 million and $145.6 million in affordable housing and other tax credit investment partnership interest as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. The amount of amortization of such investments reported in the provision for income taxes was $10.5 million, $11.3 million and $5.2 million during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The affordable housing tax credits and other benefits recognized during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were $15.8 million, $10.6 million and $6.3 million, respectively.
Nonmarketable equity securities include FHLB stock, which the Company holds to meet regulatory requirements. As a member of the FHLB system, the Company is required to maintain a minimum level of investment in FHLB non-publicly traded stock based on specific percentages of the Company’s total assets and outstanding advances in accordance with the FHLB’s capital plan which may be amended or revised periodically. Amounts in excess of the required minimum may be transferred at par to another member institution subject to prior approval of the FHLB. Excess stock may also be sold to the FHLB subject to a five-year redemption notice period and at the sole discretion of the FHLB. These securities are accounted for under the cost method. These investments are considered long-term investments by management and accordingly, the ultimate recoverability of its par value is considered rather than considering temporary declines in value. The investment in FHLB stock was included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets and was $18.1 million and $34.1 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
8. Transfers of Financial Assets
The Company’s transfers of financial assets with continuing interest may include pledges of collateral to secure public deposits and repurchase agreements, FHLB and FRB borrowing capacity, automated clearing house (“ACH”) transactions and interest rate swaps.
For public deposits and repurchase agreements, the Company enters into bilateral agreements with the entity to pledge investment securities as collateral in the event of default. The right of setoff for a repurchase agreement resembles a secured borrowing, whereby the collateral pledged by the Company would be used to settle the fair value of the repurchase agreement should the Company be in default. The counterparty has the right to sell or repledge the investment securities. The Company is required by the counterparty to maintain adequate collateral levels. In the event the collateral fair value falls below stipulated levels, the Company will pledge additional investment securities. For transfers of assets with the FHLB and the FRB, the Company enters into bilateral agreements to pledge loans as collateral to secure borrowing capacity. For ACH transactions, the Company enters into bilateral agreements to collateralize possible daylight overdrafts. For interest rate swaps, the Company enters into bilateral agreements to pledge collateral when either party is in a negative fair value position to mitigate counterparty credit risk. Counterparties to ACH transactions, certain interest rate swaps, the FHLB and the FRB do not have the right to sell or repledge the collateral.
The carrying amounts of the assets pledged as collateral to secure public deposits, borrowing arrangements and other transactions as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:
As the Company did not enter into reverse repurchase agreements, no collateral was accepted as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. In addition, no debt was extinguished by in-substance defeasance.
9. Deposits
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, deposits were categorized as interest-bearing or noninterest-bearing as follows:
The following table presents the maturity distribution of time certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2020:
Time certificates of deposit in denominations of $250,000 or more, in the aggregate, were $1.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Overdrawn deposit accounts are classified as loans and totaled $2.6 million and $3.6 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
10. Short-Term Borrowings
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, short-term borrowings were comprised of the following:
(1)Interest is payable monthly.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company had no short-term borrowings as the short-term FHLB fixed-rate advances matured in 2020. As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s short-term borrowings included $400.0 million in short-term FHLB fixed-rate advances with a weighted average interest rate of 2.84%. The short-term FHLB fixed-rate advances required monthly interest-only payments with the principal amount due on the maturity date. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had a remaining line of credit of $2.0 billion and $1.7 billion available from the FHLB, respectively. The FHLB fixed-rate advances and remaining borrowing capacity were secured by residential real estate loan collateral as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had an undrawn line of credit of $1.1 billion and $596.8 million available from the FRB, respectively. The borrowing capacity with the FRB was secured by consumer, commercial and industrial, commercial real estate and residential mortgage loans as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. See “Note 8. Transfers of Financial Assets” for more information.
The table below provides selected information for short-term borrowings during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
The Company treats securities sold under agreements to repurchase as collateralized financings. The Company reflects the obligations to repurchase the same or similar securities sold as liabilities, with the dollar amount of securities underlying the agreements remaining in the asset accounts. Generally, for these types of agreements, there is a requirement that collateral be maintained with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount borrowed. As such, the collateral pledged may be increased or decreased over time to meet contractual obligations. The securities underlying the agreements to repurchase are held in collateral accounts with a third-party custodian. The Company did not enter into any repurchase agreements in 2020 and 2019.
11. Long-Term Borrowings
Long-term borrowings consisted of the following at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(1)Interest is payable monthly.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’s long-term borrowings included $200.0 million in FHLB fixed-rate advances with a weighted average interest rate of 2.73% and maturity dates ranging from 2023 to 2024. The FHLB fixed-rate advances require monthly interest-only payments with the principal amount due on the maturity date.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company’s long-term borrowings included a finance lease obligation with a 6.78%annual interest rate that matures in 2022.
At December 31, 2020, future contractual principal payments and maturities on long-term borrowings were as follows:
(1)FHLB fixed-rate advance callable on March 3, 2021 with an interest rate of 2.80%
(2)FHLB fixed-rate advance callable on April 15, 2021 with an interest rate of 2.65%
12. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is defined as the revenues, expenses, gains and losses that are included in comprehensive income, but excluded from net income. The Company’s significant items of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) are pension and other benefits, investment securities and cash flow derivative hedges. Changes in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 are presented below:
The following table summarizes changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, for the years indicated:
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not have any available-for-sale debt securities in an unrealized loss position with the intent to sell and determined it was not more likely than not that the Company would be required to sell the securities prior to recovery of the amortized cost basis. Thus, for the year ended December 31, 2020, there was no incremental non-credit-related impairment loss recognized in earnings on these securities, and for the year ended December 31, 2019, there was no non-credit OTTI loss on these securities. For the year ended December 31, 2018, an OTTI loss on available-for-sale debt securities of $24.1 million was recorded due to the Company’s intent to sell as of December 31, 2018.
13. Regulatory Capital Requirements
Federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Company may declare or pay. The Company depends primarily on dividends from FHB as the source of funds for the Company’s payment of dividends.
The Company and the Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements imposed by federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary, actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company’s and the Bank’s operating activities and financial condition. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company and Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of its assets and certain off-balance-sheet items. The capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.
Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Common Equity Tier 1 (“CET1”) capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital to risk-weighted assets, as well as a minimum leverage ratio.
The following provides definitions for the regulatory risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio, which are calculated as per standard regulatory guidance:
Risk-Weighted Assets - Assets are weighted for risk according to a formula used by the Federal Reserve to conform to capital adequacy guidelines. On- and off-balance sheet items are weighted for risk, with off-balance sheet items converted to balance sheet equivalents, using risk conversion factors, before being allocated a risk-adjusted weight. The off-balance sheet items comprise a minimal part of the overall calculation.
Common Equity Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio - The CET1 risk-based capital ratio is calculated as CET1 capital, divided by risk-weighted assets. CET1 is the sum of equity, adjusted for ineligible goodwill as well as certain other comprehensive income items as follows: net unrealized gains/losses on securities and derivatives, and net unrealized pension and other benefit losses.
Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio - The Tier 1 capital ratio is calculated as Tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets.
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio - The total risk-based capital ratio is calculated as the sum of Tier 1 capital and an allowable amount of the reserve for credit losses (limited to 1.25 percent of risk-weighted assets), divided by risk-weighted assets.
Tier 1 Leverage Ratio - The Tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by adjusted quarterly average total assets.
The table below sets forth those ratios at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(1)As defined by the regulations issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC.
A capital conservation buffer, comprised of CET1 capital, was established above the regulatory minimum capital requirements. As of December 31, 2020, under the bank regulatory capital guidelines, the Company and Bank were both classified as well-capitalized and exceeded the aforementioned capital conservation buffer. Management is not aware of any conditions or events that have occurred since December 31, 2020, to change the capital adequacy category of the Company or the Bank.
14. Leases
The Company, as lessee, is obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases primarily for branch premises and related real estate. Terms of such leases extend for periods up to 43 years, many of which provide for periodic adjustment of rent payments based on changes in various economic indicators. Renewal options are included in the Company’s lease liabilities and related right-of-use assets to the extent that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise such options. For all of the Company’s short-term leases (i.e., leases with an initial term of 12 months or less), the Company recognizes lease expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Variable lease payments are recognized in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred.
The Company’s branch premises leases typically require that the Company is responsible to pay for variable lease expense, primarily maintenance expense, as well as real property taxes, property insurance and sales taxes. Maintenance expense is paid to maintain common areas and covers costs including landscaping, cleaning and general maintenance. Such variable costs are typically re-evaluated by the landlord on an annual basis and are charged to the Company based on the portion of the total building premises that is occupied by the Company.
The Company subleases certain premises and real estate to third parties. The sublease portfolio consists of operating leases for space connected with three of the Company’s branch properties.
The components of the Company’s net lease expense for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:
For the year ended December 31, 2018, rental expense, net of sublease income, presented in accordance with Topic 840, Leases was as follows:
Other information related to the Company’s lease liabilities as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:
Operating lease right-of-use assets were $40.2 million and $44.3 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and finance lease right-of-use assets were not material as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019. Operating lease right-of-use assets and finance lease right-of use assets were recorded as a component of other assets and premises and equipment, respectively, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. Operating lease liabilities were $40.6 million and $44.4 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and finance lease liabilities were not material as of both December 31, 2020 and 2019. Operating lease liabilities and finance lease liabilities were recorded as a component of other liabilities and long-term borrowings, respectively, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The most significant assumption related to the Company’s application of Topic 842 was the discount rate assumption. As most of the Company’s lease agreements do not provide for an implicit interest rate, the Company used the collateralized interest rate that the Company would have to pay to borrow over a similar term to estimate the Company’s lease liabilities.
The following table sets forth future minimum rental payments under noncancelable operating leases with terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2020:
The Company has several operating leases with related parties associated with its branch premises. The lease payments to related parties were nil and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The Company, as lessor, rents office space in its headquarters office building as well as office space located primarily in Hawaii to third party lessees. The cost and accumulated depreciation related to leased properties were $304.3 million and $150.0 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2020, and $288.8 million and $141.3 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2019. Terms of such leases, including renewal options, may be extended for up to ten years, many of which provide for periodic adjustment of rent payments based on changes in consumer or other price indices. The Company recognizes lease income on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Non-lease components, primarily consisting of costs incurred by the Company for maintenance and utilities, are recognized as income in the period in which the payments are due.
The Company recognized operating lease income related to lease payments of $6.3 million and $5.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In addition, the Company recognized $5.6 million and $5.3 million of lease income related to variable lease payments for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Certain of the Company’s leases are with related parties for the use of space at the Company’s headquarters office building. The rental income paid by the related parties for both the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $0.4 million. The future minimum rental income from related parties are $0.4 million (2021), $0.4 million (2022), $0.4 million (2023), $0.4 million (2024), $0.4 million (2025), and $0.4 million thereafter.
The following table sets forth future minimum rental income under noncancelable operating leases with terms in excess of one year as of December 31, 2020:
15. Benefit Plans
Qualified Pension Plan
The Company’s employees participate in the Employees’ Retirement Plan of First Hawaiian, Inc. (the “FHI ERP”). The FHI ERP is a frozen plan whereby there are no further benefit accruals for the Company’s employees. However, employees retain rights to participant benefits accrued as of the date of the plan freeze.
No contributions to the pension trust are expected to be made during 2021 for the Company’s participants in the FHI ERP. However, should contributions be required in accordance with the funding rules under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”), including the impact of the Pension Protection Act of 2006, the Company would make those required contributions.
Nonqualified Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans
The Company also sponsors an unfunded supplemental executive retirement plan for certain key executives (“SERP”). In addition, the Company sponsors a directors’ retirement plan (“Directors’ Plan”), a non-qualified pension plan for eligible FHI and FHB directors that qualify for retirement benefits based on their years of service as a director. Both the SERP and the Directors’ Plan were frozen as of January 1, 2005 to new participants. In March 2019, the Company’s board of directors approved an amendment to the SERP to freeze the SERP, which became effective on July 1, 2019. As a result of the amendment, since the effective date, there have not been any, and there will be no, new accruals of benefits, including service accruals. Existing benefits under the SERP, as of the effective date of the amendment described above, will otherwise continue in accordance with the terms of the SERP. No contributions to the SERP are expected to be made in 2021.
A postretirement benefit plan is also offered to eligible employees that provides life insurance and healthcare benefits upon retirement. The Company provides access to medical coverage for eligible retirees under age 65 at active employee premium rates and a monthly stipend to both retiree and retiree’s spouse after age 62.
The Company expects to contribute $0.2 million to its Directors’ Plan and $1.2 million to its postretirement medical and life insurance plans in 2021. These contributions reflect the estimated benefit payments for the unfunded plans and may vary depending on retirements during 2021.
Defined Contribution Plans
401(k) Savings Plan and Money Purchase Pension Plan
The Company matched employee contributions to the First Hawaiian, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan, a qualified defined contribution plan, up to 5%of the employee’s pay in 2020, 2019 and 2018. The Company also contributed 2.5% of employee pay to the First Hawaiian, Inc. Future Plan, a money purchase pension plan. The plans cover all employees who satisfy eligibility requirements. A select group of key executives who participate in an unqualified grandfathered supplemental executive retirement plan may participate in the 401(k) plan but are not eligible to receive the matching contribution.
The employer contributions to the above-mentioned plans for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were $8.6 million, $7.5 million and $7.8 million, respectively, and are included in salaries and employee benefits within the consolidated statements of income.
Annual Incentive Awards for Key Executives
The Company makes cash-based annual incentive awards under the First Hawaiian, Inc. Bonus Plan (the “Bonus Plan”). The Bonus Plan limits the aggregate and individual value of the awards that could be issued in any one fiscal year. The Bonus Plan expenses totaled $15.2 million, $15.6 million and $14.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and are included in salaries and employee benefits within the consolidated statements of income.
The following table details the amounts recognized in other comprehensive income during the years presented. Pension benefits include benefits from the qualified and non-qualified plans. Other benefits include life insurance and healthcare benefits from the postretirement benefit plan.
The following table shows the amounts within accumulated other comprehensive loss that had not yet been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The following tables summarize the changes to the projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) and fair value of plan assets for pension benefits and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets for other benefits:
The actuarial losses related to changes in the Company’s PBO for pension benefits are primarily due to changes in discount rates for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The following table summarizes the funded status of the Company’s plans and amounts recognized in the Company’s consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The following table provides information regarding the PBO, accumulated benefit obligation (“ABO”), and fair value of plan assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The Company recognizes the overfunded and underfunded status of its pension plans as an asset and liability in the consolidated balance sheets.
Unrecognized net gains or losses that exceed 5% of the greater of the PBO or the fair value of plan assets as of the beginning of the year are amortized on a straight-line basis over five years in accordance with ASC 715. Amortization of the unrecognized net gain or loss is included as a component of net periodic pension cost. If amortization results in an amount less than the minimum amortization required under GAAP, the minimum required amount is recorded.
The following table summarizes the change in net actuarial loss and amortization for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
The following table sets forth the components of net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
The funded pension benefit amounts included in pension benefits for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows:
Assumptions
The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine benefit obligations at December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were as follows:
To select the discount rate, the Company reviews the yield on high quality corporate bonds. This rate is adjusted to convert the yield to an annual discount rate basis and may be adjusted for the population of plan participants to reflect the expected duration of the benefit payments of the plan.
Assumed healthcare cost trend rates were as follows at December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
Plan Assets
The Company’s pension plan assets were allocated as follows as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
There were no holdings of FHI or BNPP stock included in equity securities at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The assets within the pension plan are managed in accordance with ERISA. The objective of the plan is to achieve, over full market cycles, a compounded annual rate of return equal to or greater than the pension plan’s expected long-term rate of return. The pension plan’s participants recognize that capital markets can be unpredictable and that any investment could result in periods where the market value of the pension plan’s assets will decline in value. Asset allocation is likely to be the primary determinant of the pension plan’s return and the associated volatility of returns for the pension plan. The Company estimated the long-term rate of return for the 2020 net periodic pension cost to be 4.40%. The return was selected based on a model of U.S. capital market assumptions with expected returns reflecting the anticipated asset allocation of the pension plan.
The target asset allocation for the pension plan at December 31, 2020, was as follows:
Estimated Future Benefit Payments
The following table presents benefit payments that are expected to be paid over the next ten years, giving consideration to expected future service as appropriate:
Fair Value Measurement of Plan Assets
The Company’s overall investment strategy includes a wide diversification of asset types, fund strategies and fund managers. Investments in mutual funds and exchange-traded funds consist primarily of investments in large-cap companies located in the United States. Fixed income securities include U.S. government agencies and corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries.
The fair values of the Company’s pension plan assets at December 31, 2020 and 2019, by asset class, were as follows:
No fair value measurements used Level 3 inputs as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
The plan’s investments in fixed income securities represent approximately 85.1% and 66.2% of total plan assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which is the most significant concentration of risk in the plan.
Valuation Methodologies
Cash and cash equivalents - includes institutional money market funds, whose carrying value represents fair value because of their short-term maturities of the instruments held by these funds.
U.S. Treasury securities - includes securities issued by the U.S. government valued at fair value based on observable market prices for similar securities or other market observable inputs.
U.S. government agency securities - includes investment-grade debt securities issued by U.S. government agencies. These securities are valued at fair value based upon the quoted market values of the underlying net assets.
U.S. corporate securities - includes investment-grade debt securities issued by U.S. corporations. These securities are valued at fair value based on observable market prices for similar securities or other market observable inputs.
Municipal securities - includes bonds issued by a city or other local government, or their agencies. Potential issuers of municipal bonds include cities, counties, redevelopment agencies, special-purpose districts, school districts, public utility districts, publicly owned airports and seaports, and any other governmental entity (or group of governments) below the state level. Municipal bonds may be general obligations of the issuer or secured by specified revenues. These securities are valued at fair value based on observable market prices for similar securities or other market observable inputs.
Mutual funds - includes an open-end fixed-income fund benchmarked to the Barclay’s Capital U.S. Government/Credit Bond Index. At least 80% of its assets are high-grade corporate bonds and U.S. government debt obligations. The fair value is based upon the quoted market values of the underlying net assets.
International securities - includes investment-grade debt securities issued by international corporations. The fair value is based upon the quoted market values of the underlying net assets.
Large-cap exchange-traded fund - includes an exchange-traded fund which invests mainly in U.S. large-cap stocks such as those in the S&P 500 index. The fair value is based upon the quoted market values of the underlying net assets.
Mid-cap exchange-traded funds - includes broadly-diversified exchange-traded funds which invest in U.S. mid-cap stocks such as those in the S&P 400 Mid Cap index. The fair value is based upon the quoted market values of the underlying net assets.
Small-cap exchange-traded funds - includes broadly-diversified exchange-traded funds which invest in U.S. small-cap stocks such as those in the S&P 600 Small Cap index. The fair value is based upon the quoted market values of the underlying net assets.
International funds - includes well-diversified exchange-traded funds tracking broad-based international equity indexes. The fair value is based upon the quoted market values of the underlying net assets.
16. Income Taxes
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the provision (benefit) for income taxes was comprised of the following:
The Company files Federal and state income tax returns for its subsidiaries. The Company’s subsidiary also files income tax returns in Guam, Saipan and certain other state jurisdictions. The Company had a current income tax receivable due from various jurisdictions of $19.0 million and $24.4 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, for its share of consolidated and combined tax overpayments that had not yet been received.
The components of net deferred income tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2020 and 2019, were as follows:
Net deferred income tax assets were included in other assets in the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Management evaluated the deferred income tax assets for recoverability by considering negative and positive evidence. Negative evidence included the uncertainty of generating future capital gains and restrictions on the ability to sell low-income housing investments during periods when carrybacks of capital losses are allowed. Positive evidence included the generation of capital gains in the current year and carryback years. Based on the weight of all available evidence, management determined a valuation allowance to offset deferred tax assets related to investments in low-income housing projects that can only be utilized to offset capital gains was required. Management further concluded it is more likely than not that the remaining deferred tax assets will be realized through carryback to taxable income in prior years, future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, and projected future taxable income. Consequently, the remaining deferred income tax assets are not subject to a valuation allowance.
The following analysis reconciles the Federal statutory income tax rate to the effective income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
The Company is subject to examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and tax authorities in states in which the Company has significant business operations. The tax years under examination and open for examination vary by jurisdiction. The Company’s 2010, 2011, 2016 and 2017 first short-period tax returns are currently under IRS examination. In addition, refund claims and tax returns for certain years are being reviewed by state jurisdictions. No material adjustments are anticipated as a result of these examinations and reviews. The Company’s income tax returns for 2017 and subsequent tax years generally remain subject to examination by U.S. federal and foreign jurisdictions, and 2016 and subsequent years are subject to examination by state taxing authorities.
A reconciliation of the amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
Included in the balance of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, was $22.2 million, $19.1 million and $16.2 million, respectively, of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate.
In connection with the Reorganization Transactions discussed below, the Company recorded unrecognized tax benefits and interest and penalties of $121.4 million and $7.0 million, respectively. Included in the balance of the unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, was $93.9 million attributable to tax refund claims with respect to tax years 2005 through 2012 in the State of California. Such refund claims were filed by the Company in 2015, on behalf of the Company and its affiliates, including BOW, concerning the determination of taxes for which no benefit is currently recognized. It is reasonably possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits could decrease within the next 12 months by as much as $2.4 million of taxes and $0.9 million of accrued interest and penalties as a result of settlements and the expiration of the statute of limitations in various states.
The Company recognizes interest and penalties attributable to both unrecognized tax benefits and undisputed tax adjustments in the provision for income taxes. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $4.4 million, $2.4 million and $1.0 million, respectively, of net expense attributable to interest and penalties. The Company had a liability of $20.6 million and $16.3 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, accrued for interest and penalties, of which $18.9 million and $14.7 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, were attributable to unrecognized tax benefits and the remainder was attributable to tax adjustments which are not expected to be in dispute.
Prior to the Reorganization Transactions, the Company filed consolidated U.S. Federal and combined state tax returns that incorporated the tax receivables and unrecognized tax benefits of FHB and BOW. The consummation of the Reorganization Transactions did not relieve the Company of the pre-Reorganization Transactions tax receivables and unrecognized tax benefits recognized by BOW that were included in the Company's consolidated and combined tax returns. As a result, on April 1, 2016, the Company recorded $72.8 million related to current tax receivables, $116.6 million related to unrecognized tax benefits, and an indemnification payable of $28.6 million. As of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company maintained balances of $93.1 million related to current tax receivables. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company maintained balances of $119.3 million and $118.1 million, respectively, related to unrecognized tax benefits, and an indemnification receivable of $26.1 million and $25.0 million, respectively. Additionally, in connection with the Reorganization Transactions, the Company has incurred certain tax-related liabilities related to the distribution of its interest in BWHI amounting to $95.4 million. The amount necessary to pay the distribution taxes (net of the expected federal tax benefit of $33.4 million) was paid by BNPP to the Company on April 1, 2016. The Company reported total
distribution taxes of $92.1 million in the 2016 tax returns of various state and local jurisdictions, and reimbursed BWHI approximately $2.1 million pursuant to a tax sharing agreement entered into on April 1, 2016 and pursuant to certain tax allocation agreements entered into among the parties. The Company expects that any future adjustment to such taxes will be similarly reimbursed to, or funded by, BWHI or its affiliates. Accordingly, the assumption of the pre-Reorganization Transactions tax receivables, unrecognized tax benefits and distribution tax liabilities and the offsetting indemnification receivables or payables were reflected as equity contributions and distributions on April 1, 2016. The reimbursement of distribution taxes to BWHI was also reflected as an adjustment to equity. If there are any future adjustments to the indemnified tax receivables or unrecognized tax benefits, including as a result of the IRS audit of the Company’s income tax returns, an offsetting adjustment to the indemnification receivables or payables will be recorded to the provision for income taxes and other noninterest income or expense. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recorded $1.2 million, nil and $1.5 million, respectively, of such adjustments through the provision for income taxes and noninterest income.
17. Derivative Financial Instruments
The Company enters into derivative contracts primarily to manage its interest rate risk, as well as for customer accommodation purposes. Derivatives used for risk management purposes consist of interest rate swaps that are designated as either a fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. The derivatives are recognized on the consolidated balance sheets as either assets or liabilities at fair value. Derivatives entered into for customer accommodation purposes consist of various free-standing interest rate derivative products and foreign exchange contracts. The Company is party to master netting arrangements with its financial institution counterparties; however, the Company does not offset assets and liabilities under these arrangements for financial statement presentation purposes.
The following table summarizes notional amounts and fair values of derivatives held by the Company as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
(1)The positive fair values of derivative assets are included in other assets.
(2)The negative fair values of derivative liabilities are included in other liabilities.
Certain interest rate swaps noted above, are cleared through clearinghouses, rather than directly with counterparties. Those transactions cleared through a clearinghouse require initial margin collateral and variation margin payments depending on the contracts being in a net asset or liability position. The amount of initial margin cash collateral posted by the Company was $4.8 million and $8.7 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the variation margin was $129.9 million and $63.5 million, respectively.
As of December 31, 2020, the Company pledged $30.8 million in financial instruments and $25.2 million in cash as collateral for interest rate swaps. As of December 31, 2019, the Company pledged $29.9 million in financial instruments and $13.4 million in cash as collateral for interest rate swaps. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the cash collateral includes the excess initial margin for interest rate swaps cleared through clearinghouses and cash collateral for interest rate swaps with financial institution counterparties.
Fair Value Hedges
To manage the risk related to the Company’s net interest margin, interest rate swaps are utilized to hedge certain fixed-rate loans. These swaps have maturity, amortization and prepayment features that correspond to the loans hedged and are designated and qualify as fair value hedges. Any gain or loss on the swaps, as well as the offsetting loss or gain on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, is recognized in current period earnings.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company carried one interest rate swap with a notional amount of $22.5 million and $23.2 million, respectively, with a negative fair value of $1.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively, that was categorized as a fair value hedge for a commercial and industrial loan. The Company received a USD Prime floating rate and paid a fixed rate of 2.90%. The swap matures in 2023.
The following table shows the net gains and losses recognized in income related to derivatives in fair value hedging relationships for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(1)In connection with the adoption of ASU 2017-12, beginning January 1, 2019, gain (loss) amounts for the interest rate swap qualifying as fair value hedging and the hedged item are included in interest income from loans and lease financing.
(2)Prior to January 1, 2019, gain (loss) amounts for the interest rate swaps qualifying as fair value hedging and the hedged items were included in other noninterest income.
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the following amounts were recorded in the consolidated balance sheets related to the cumulative basis adjustments for fair value hedges:
Cash Flow Hedges
During 2018, the Company carried two interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $150.0 million, in order to reduce exposure to interest rate increases associated with short-term fixed-rate liabilities. The Company received 6-month LIBOR and paid fixed rates ranging from 2.98% to 3.03%. The swaps matured in December 2018. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company held no cash flow hedges.
The Company utilized interest rate swaps to reduce exposure to interest rates associated with short-term fixed-rate liabilities. The Company entered into interest rate swaps paying fixed rates and receiving LIBOR. The LIBOR index corresponded to the short-term fixed-rate nature of the liabilities being hedged. If interest rates rose, the increase in interest received on the swaps offset increases in interest costs associated with these liabilities. By hedging with interest rate swaps, the Company minimized the adverse impact on interest expense associated with increasing rates on short-term liabilities.
The interest rate swaps were designated and qualified as cash flow hedges. The effective portion of the gain or loss on the interest rate swaps was reported as a component of other comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affected earnings. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the pretax gain recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income of $7.6 million was reclassified into other noninterest income on the maturity dates of the cash flow hedges. The interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges resulted in net interest expense of $1.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. The Company also recognized expenses related to the ineffective portion of the change in fair value of the cash flow hedges of nil for the year ended December 31, 2018.
The following table summarizes the effect of cash flow hedging relationships for the year ended December 31, 2018:
Free-Standing Derivative Instruments
For the derivatives that are not designated as hedges, changes in fair value are reported in current period earnings. The following table summarizes the impact on pretax earnings of derivatives not designated as hedges, as reported on the consolidated statements of income for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
As of December 31, 2020, the Company carried multiple interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $3.0 billion, all of which were related to the Company’s customer swap program, with a positive fair value of $129.9 million and a negative fair value of nil. The Company received floating rates ranging from 0.15% to 3.16% and paid fixed rates ranging from 2.02% to 5.78%. The swaps mature between 2021 and 2040. As of December 31, 2019, the Company carried multiple interest rate swaps with notional amounts totaling $2.8 billion, all of which were related to the Company’s customer swap program, with a positive fair value of $63.5 million and a negative fair value of nil. The Company received 1-month LIBOR and paid fixed rates ranging from 1.71% to 8.73%. These swaps resulted in net interest expense of nil, nil and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
The Company’s customer swap program is designed by offering customers a variable-rate loan that is swapped to fixed-rate through an interest-rate swap. The Company simultaneously executes an offsetting interest-rate swap with a swap dealer. Upfront fees on the dealer swap are recorded in other noninterest income and totaled $8.3 million, $4.5 million and $7.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
In conjunction with the 2016 sale of Class B restricted shares of common stock issued by Visa, the Company entered into a funding swap agreement with the buyer that requires payment to the buyer in the event Visa reduces each member bank’s Class B conversion rate to unrestricted Class A common shares. On June 28, 2018, Visa additionally funded its litigation escrow account, thereby reducing each member bank’s Class B conversion rate to unrestricted Class A common shares. Accordingly, on July 5, 2018, Visa announced a decrease in conversion rate from 1.6483 to 1.6298 effective June 28, 2018. In July 2018, the Company made a payment of approximately $0.7 million to the buyer as a result of the reduction in the Visa Class B conversion rate. On September 27, 2019, Visa additionally funded its litigation escrow account, thereby further reducing each member bank’s Class B conversion rate to unrestricted Class A common shares. Accordingly, on September 30, 2019, Visa announced a decrease in conversion rate from 1.6298 to 1.6228, effective September 27, 2019. In October 2019, the Company made a payment of approximately $0.3 million to the buyer as a result of the reduction in the Visa Class B conversion rate. Under the terms of the funding swap agreement, the Company will
make monthly payments to the buyer based on Visa’s Class A stock price and the number of Visa Class B restricted shares that were sold until the date on which the covered litigation is settled. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company recorded losses in other noninterest income of $4.8 million and $4.5 million, respectively, related to a revaluation adjustment to increase the fair value of the derivative liability (“Visa derivative”). The Visa derivative of $4.6 million and $4.2 million was included in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, to provide for the fair value of this liability. There were no sales of these shares prior to 2016. See “Note 22. Fair Value” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information.
Counterparty Credit Risk
By using derivatives, the Company is exposed to counterparty credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If a counterparty fails to perform, the Company’s counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset, net of cash or other collateral received, and net of derivatives in a loss position with the same counterparty to the extent master netting arrangements exist. The Company minimizes counterparty credit risk through credit approvals, limits, monitoring procedures, executing master netting arrangements and obtaining collateral, where appropriate. Counterparty credit risk related to derivatives is considered in determining fair value.
The Company’s interest rate swap agreements include bilateral collateral agreements with collateral requirements which begin with exposures in excess of $0.3 million. For each counterparty, the Company reviews the interest rate swap collateral daily. Collateral for customer interest rate swap agreements, calculated as the pledged asset less loan balance, requires valuation of the pledged asset. Counterparty credit risk adjustments of $0.1 million were recognized during each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018.
Credit-Risk Related Contingent Features
Certain of our derivative contracts contain provisions whereby if the Company’s credit rating were to be downgraded by certain major credit rating agencies as a result of a merger or material adverse change in the Company’s financial condition, the counterparty could require an early termination of derivative instruments in a net liability position. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments with such credit-risk related contingent features that are in a net liability position was $19.8 million and $4.0 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, for which we posted $20.4 million and $4.7 million, respectively, in collateral in the normal course of business. If the Company’s credit rating had been downgraded on December 31, 2020 and 2019, we may have been required to settle the contract in an amount equal to its fair value.
18. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities
Contingencies
On November 2, 2020, a lawsuit was filed in Hawaii Circuit Court by a Bank customer related to the sale of credit facilities that the Bank had previously extended to the customer. The customer asserts claims against the Bank for interference with the customer’s contract and business opportunity, unfair methods of competition and declaratory and injunctive relief. The outcome of this legal proceeding is uncertain at this point. Based on information available to the Company at present, the Company cannot reasonably estimate a range of potential loss, if any, for this action. Accordingly, the Company has not recognized any liability associated with this action. Management disputes any wrongdoing and the case is being vigorously defended.
On January 27, 2017, a putative class action lawsuit was filed by a Bank customer alleging that FHB improperly charges an overdraft fee in circumstances where an account had sufficient funds to cover the transaction at the time the transaction is authorized, but not at the time the transaction is presented for payment and that this practice constitutes an unjust and deceptive trade practice and a breach of contract. The lawsuit further alleged that FHB’s practice of assessing a one-time continuous negative balance overdraft fee on accounts remaining in a negative balance for a seven-day period constitutes a usurious interest charge and an unfair and deceptive trade practice. On October 2, 2018, the parties reached an agreement in principle to resolve this class action lawsuit. In connection with the anticipated settlement agreement, the Company recorded an expense of approximately $4.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2018. In August 2019, the court approved the settlement agreement executed by the parties, pursuant to which the Company funded a $4.1 million settlement account. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company received insurance proceeds of $0.7 million to partially cover the litigation expense incurred in the prior year.
In addition to the litigation noted above, various other legal proceedings are pending or threatened against the Company. After consultation with legal counsel, management does not expect that the aggregate liability, if any, resulting from these proceedings would have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
Financial Instruments with Off-Balance Sheet Risk
The Company is a party to financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its customers. These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and standby and commercial letters of credit which are not reflected in the consolidated financial statements.
Unfunded Commitments to Extend Credit
A commitment to extend credit is a legally binding agreement to lend funds to a customer, usually at a stated interest rate and for a specified purpose. Commitments are reported net of participations sold to other institutions. Such commitments have fixed expiration dates and generally require a fee. The extension of a commitment gives rise to credit risk. The actual liquidity requirements or credit risk that the Company will experience is expected to be lower than the contractual amount of commitments to extend credit because a significant portion of those commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Certain commitments are subject to loan agreements containing covenants regarding the financial performance of the customer that must be met before the Company is required to fund the commitment. The Company uses the same credit policies in making commitments to extend credit as it does in making loans. In addition, the Company manages the potential credit risk in commitments to extend credit by limiting the total amount of arrangements, both by individual customer and in the aggregate, by monitoring the size and expiration structure of these portfolios and by applying the same credit standards maintained for all of its related credit activities. Commitments to extend credit are reported net of participations sold to other institutions of $93.1 million and $94.1 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Standby and Commercial Letters of Credit
Standby letters of credit are issued on behalf of customers in connection with contracts between the customers and third parties. Under standby letters of credit, the Company assures that the third parties will receive specified funds if customers fail to meet their contractual obligations. The credit risk to the Company arises from its obligation to make payment in the event of a customer’s contractual default. Standby letters of credit are reported net of participations sold to other institutions of $11.0 million and $9.0 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The Company also had commitments for commercial and similar letters of credit. Commercial letters of credit are issued specifically to facilitate commerce whereby the commitment is typically drawn upon when the underlying transaction between the customer and a third-party is consummated. The maximum amount of potential future payments guaranteed by the Company is limited to the contractual amount of these letters. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. Collateral held supports those commitments for which collateral is deemed necessary. The commitments outstanding as of December 31, 2020 have maturities ranging from January 2021 to May 2022. Substantially all fees received from the issuance of such commitments are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the commitment.
Financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk at December 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows:
Guarantees
The Company sells residential mortgage loans in the secondary market primarily to The Federal National Mortgage Association (“FNMA” or “Fannie Mae”) and The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (“FHLMC” or “Freddie Mac”) that may potentially require repurchase under certain conditions. This risk is managed through the Company’s underwriting practices. The Company services loans sold to investors and loans originated by other originators under agreements that may include repurchase remedies if certain servicing requirements are not met. This risk is managed through the Company’s quality assurance and monitoring procedures. Management does not anticipate any material losses as a result of these transactions.
Lease Commitments
The Company’s lease commitments are discussed in “Note 14. Leases” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Foreign Exchange Contracts
The Company has forward foreign exchange contracts that represent commitments to purchase or sell foreign currencies at a future date at a specified price. The Company’s utilization of forward foreign exchange contracts is subject to the primary underlying risk of movements in foreign currency exchange rates and to additional counterparty risk should its counterparties fail to meet the terms of their contracts. Forward foreign exchange contracts are utilized to mitigate the Company’s risk to satisfy customer demand for foreign currencies and are not used for trading purposes. See “Note 17. Derivative Financial Instruments” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for more information.
Reorganization Transactions
In connection with the Reorganization Transactions as discussed in “Note 1. Organization and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, FHI (formerly BancWest) distributed its interest in BWHI (including BOW) to BNPP so that BWHI was held directly by BNPP (BWHI is now held indirectly by BNPP through its intermediate holding company). As a result of the Reorganization Transactions that occurred on April 1, 2016, various tax or other contingent liabilities could arise related to the business of BOW, or related to the Company’s operations prior to the restructuring when it was known as BancWest, including its then wholly owned subsidiary, BOW. The Company is not able to determine the ultimate outcome or estimate the amounts of these contingent liabilities, if any, at this time.
19. Revenue from Contracts with Customers
In accordance with Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenues are recognized when control of promised goods or services is transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. To determine revenue recognition for arrangements that an entity determines are within the scope of Topic 606, the Company performs the following five steps: (i) identify the contract(s) with a customer; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognize revenue when (or as) the Company satisfies a performance obligation. The Company only applies the five-step model to contracts when it is probable that the entity will collect the consideration it is entitled to in exchange for the goods or services it transfers to the customer. At contract inception, once the contract is determined to be within the scope of Topic 606, the Company assesses the goods or services that are promised within each contract and identifies those that contain performance obligations, and assesses whether each promised good or service is distinct. The Company then recognizes as revenue the amount of the transaction price that is allocated to the respective performance obligation when (or as) the performance obligation is satisfied.
Disaggregation of Revenue
The following table summarizes the Company’s revenues, which includes net interest income on financial instruments and noninterest income, disaggregated by type of service and business segments for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
(1)Most of the Company’s revenue is not within the scope of Topic 606. The guidance explicitly excludes net interest income from financial assets and liabilities as well as other noninterest income from loans, leases, investment securities and derivative financial instruments.
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, substantially all of the Company’s revenues under the scope of Topic 606 were related to performance obligations satisfied at a point in time.
The following is a discussion of revenues within the scope of Topic 606.
Service Charges on Deposit Accounts
Service charges on deposit accounts relate to fees generated from a variety of deposit products and services rendered to customers. Charges include, but are not limited to, overdraft fees, non-sufficient fund fees, dormant fees and monthly service charges. Such fees are recognized concurrent with the event on a daily basis or on a monthly basis depending upon the customer’s cycle date.
Credit and Debit Card Fees
Credit and debit card fees primarily represent revenues earned from interchange fees, ATM fees and merchant processing fees. Interchange and network revenues are earned on credit and debit card transactions conducted with payment networks. ATM fees are primarily earned as a result of surcharges assessed to non-FHB customers who use an FHB ATM. Merchant processing fees are primarily earned on transactions in which FHB is the acquiring bank. Such fees are generally recognized concurrently with the delivery of services on a daily basis.
Trust and Investment Services Fees
Trust and investment services fees represent revenue earned by directing, holding and managing customers’ assets. Fees are generally computed based on a percentage of the previous period’s value of assets under management. The transaction price (i.e., percentage of assets under management) is established at the inception of each contract. Trust and investment services fees also include broker dealer fees which represent revenue earned from buying and selling securities on behalf of customers. Such fees are recognized at the end of a valuation period or concurrently with the execution of a buy or sell transaction.
Other Fees
Other fees primarily include revenues generated from wire transfers, lockboxes, bank issuance of checks and insurance commissions. Such fees are recognized concurrent with the event or on a monthly basis.
Contract Balances
A contract liability is an entity’s obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which the entity has received consideration (or the amount is due) from the customer. In prior years, the Company received signing bonuses from two vendors which are being amortized over the term of the respective contracts. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had contract liabilities of $1.0 million and $1.8 million, respectively, which will be recognized over the remaining term of the respective contracts with the vendors. For each of the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company recognized revenues, thereby decreasing contract liabilities by approximately $0.8 million due to the passage of time. There were no changes in contract liabilities due to changes in transaction price estimates.
A contract asset is the right to consideration for transferred goods or services when the amount is conditioned on something other than the passage of time. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, there were no material receivables from contracts with customers or contract assets recorded on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets.
Other
Except for the contract liabilities noted above, the Company did not have any significant performance obligations as of December 31, 2020 and 2019. The Company also did not have any material contract acquisition costs or use any significant judgments or estimates in recognizing revenue for financial reporting purposes.
20. Earnings per Share
For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company made no adjustments to net income for the purpose of computing earnings per share and there were 410,000 antidilutive securities. For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, the Company made no adjustments to net income for the purpose of computing earnings per share and there were no antidilutive securities.
The computations of basic and diluted earnings per share were as follows for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
21. Stock-Based Compensation
The Company has several stock-based compensation plans that allow for grants of restricted stock, restricted shares, performance share units, performance shares and restricted stock units to its employees and non-employee directors. The Company’s stock-based compensation plans are administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, stock-based compensation expense was $10.0 million, $7.8 million and $6.9 million, respectively, and the related income tax benefit was $2.4 million, $2.0 million and $1.8 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, all common stock issuances in connection with stock-based compensation arrangements were issued from unissued shares.
As of December 31, 2020, total shares authorized under the Company’s stock-based compensation plan for employees were 5.6 million shares, of which 3.8 million shares were available for future grants. As of December 31, 2020, total shares authorized under the 2016 Non-Employee Director Plan were 75,000 shares, of which 6,059 shares were available for future grants.
Restricted Share Awards
Restricted share awards (“Restricted Stock”) provide grantees with rights to shares of common stock contingent upon completion of a service period. Restricted Stock generally vests and any restrictions will lapse over a period of three years in equal annual installments on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the grant date, provided that the grantee remain continuously employed through the applicable vesting date, subject to certain exceptions. Grantees have the right to receive all dividends without restrictions at the times and in the manner paid to shareholders generally. The fair value of Restricted Stock is determined based on the closing price of FHI’s common stock on the date of grant. The Company recognizes compensation expense related to Restricted Stock on a straight-line basis over the vesting period for service-based awards.
The following presents the Company’s Restricted Stock activity for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019:
For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company granted 172,046 shares of Restricted Stock with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $25.96 to key employees. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company granted 162,550 shares of Restricted Stock with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $27.06 to key employees.
The total grant date fair value of Restricted Stock that vested for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 was $1.3 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested Restricted Stock was $4.1 million and $2.9 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The unrecognized compensation expense as of December 31, 2020 is expected to be recognized over a weighted average vesting period of 1.1 years.
There were no shares of Restricted Stock granted for the year ended December 31, 2018.
Performance Share Units and Performance Share Awards
Performance share units (“PSUs”) and performance share awards (“PSAs”) (collectively, “Performance Awards”) are an award of units or shares in which the recipient’s rights in the units or shares are contingent on the achievement of pre-established performance goals. At the end of the performance period, the Compensation Committee will determine to what extent the performance goals originally outlined when the Performance Awards were granted have been achieved. Depending on the level of performance achieved, 0-100% of the original grant (target number) of PSUs will be earned and will vest and 0-200% of the original grant (target number) of PSAs will be earned and will vest. All remaining unvested PSUs or PSAs will be immediately forfeited. Employees must be continuously employed by the Company from the grant date through the applicable vesting date, with any unvested Performance Awards being forfeited upon termination of employment, subject to certain exceptions. Following vesting, the Company will issue one share of FHI common stock for each vested PSU and evidence of ownership of one share of FHI common stock for each vested PSA. The fair value of Performance Awards is estimated based on the use of a Monte Carlo simulation or based on the closing price of FHI’s common stock on the date of grant and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. For PSUs, grantees have no voting rights until the shares of common stock underlying vested PSUs are delivered to the grantee. Conversely, for PSAs, grantees have full voting rights as of the grant date.
The Performance Awards are governed by the Company’s Long-Term Incentive Plan (the “LTIP”), which is designed to reward selected key executives for their individual performance and the Company’s performance measured over multi-year performance cycles. Awards related to the LTIP provide for equity-based awards based on the Company’s profitability and market conditions that are based on the Company’s performance relative to peer groups over a three-year performance period.
The following presents the Company’s Performance Award activity for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, the Company granted 340,758, 310,696 and 277,197 Performance Awards, respectively, to key employees. The Company granted these Performance Awards in connection with its LTIP for the three-year performance periods which began on January 1, 2020, 2019 and 2018. These awards have performance conditions that are based on the Company’s profitability and market conditions that are based on the Company’s performance relative to peer groups.
For the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company granted 115,566 PSUs in connection with its IPO. One-third of these PSUs vested on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the IPO date. However, transfer restrictions remained on these shares for six months following the vesting date. The performance condition related to these PSUs was based on the Company’s profitability in the fiscal years immediately preceding the vesting dates.
The total grant date fair value of Performance Awards that vested for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $5.2 million, $0.9 million and $7.4 million, respectively. Unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested Performance Shares was $6.2 million, $5.6 million and $6.2 million as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The unrecognized compensation expense as of December 31, 2020 is expected to be recognized over a weighted average vesting period of 1.1 years.
Restricted Stock Units
Restricted stock units (“RSUs”) are an award of units that correspond in number and value to a specified number of shares of FHI’s common stock that are subject to vesting requirements, including certain service conditions, and transferability restrictions. RSUs do not represent actual ownership of common stock and grantees have no voting rights until the shares of common stock underlying the RSUs are delivered. Following vesting, the Company will issue one share of FHI common stock for each vested RSU. The fair value of RSUs is valued based on the closing price of FHI’s common stock on the date of grant and is amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
The following presents the Company’s RSU activity for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018:
For the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company granted 28,783 RSUs to non-employee directors with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $15.86 and no RSUs were granted to employees. For the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company granted 15,918 RSUs to non-employee directors with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $26.38 and granted 4,500 RSUs to employees with a weighted average grant date fair value of $26.92. For the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company granted 11,799 RSUs to non-employee directors with a weighted-average grant date fair value of $27.89 and granted 35,295 RSUs to employees with a weighted average grant date fair value of $28.89. The awards will vest on various dates.
The total grant date fair value of RSUs that vested during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was $0.8 million, $0.6 million and $0.3 million, respectively. Unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested RSUs was $0.4 million, $0.9 million and $1.1 million as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. The unrecognized compensation expense as of December 31, 2020 is expected to be recognized over a weighted average vesting period of 0.5 years.
For all awards of PSUs, PSAs, and RSUs, dividend equivalents will accrue from the date of grant and the Company, upon delivery of the common stock, with respect to the vested PSUs and RSUs, and evidence of ownership of the shares, with respect to the vested PSAs, will pay to each grantee a cash amount equal to the product of all cash dividends paid on a share of common stock from the grant date to such delivery date and the number of shares of common stock underlying such vested PSUs, PSAs, and RSUs, as applicable, on such delivery date.
Employee Stock Purchase Plan
The Company also has an employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”) which permits employees to periodically purchase Company stock on a payroll deduction basis. Participant purchases through the ESPP receive a discount of 5% from the closing price of FHI’s common stock on the exercise date. Participants are required to adhere to a two-year holding period with regards to shares purchased through the ESPP. The ESPP has been determined to be non-compensatory in nature. As a result, the Company expects that expenses related to the ESPP will not be material. As of December 31, 2020, total shares authorized under the Company’s ESPP were 600,000 shares. The Company issued 19,069 shares and 12,341 shares of common stock to employee participants in July 2020 and January 2018, respectively, which resulted in 552,629 shares of common stock authorized for future purchases.
22. Fair Value
The Company determines the fair values of its financial instruments based on the requirements established in ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements, which provides a framework for measuring fair value under GAAP and requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. ASC 820 defines fair value as the exit price, the price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability, in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date under current market conditions.
Fair Value Hierarchy
ASC 820 establishes three levels of fair values based on the markets in which the assets or liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. The levels are:
●Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access.
●Level 2: Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.
●Level 3: Valuation is generated from model-based techniques that use significant assumptions not observable in the market. These unobservable assumptions reflect the Company’s own estimates of assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability (“Company-level data”). Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments whose value is determined using unobservable inputs to pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.
ASC 820 requires that the Company disclose estimated fair values for certain financial instruments. Financial instruments include such items as investment securities, loans, deposits, interest rate and foreign exchange contracts, swaps and other instruments as defined by the standard. The Company has an organized and established process for determining and reviewing the fair value of financial instruments reported in the Company’s financial statements. The fair value measurements are reviewed to ensure they are reasonable and in line with market experience in similar asset and liability classes.
Additionally, the Company may be required to record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as other real estate owned, other customer relationships, and other intangible assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve the application of lower-of-cost-or-fair-value accounting or write-downs of individual assets.
Disclosure of fair values is not required for certain items such as lease financing, obligations for pension and other postretirement benefits, premises and equipment, prepaid expenses, deposit liabilities with no defined or contractual maturity, and income tax assets and liabilities.
Reasonable comparisons of fair value information with that of other financial institutions cannot necessarily be made because the standard permits many alternative calculation techniques, and numerous assumptions have been used to estimate the Company’s fair values.
Valuation Techniques Used in the Fair Value Measurement of Assets and Liabilities Carried at Fair Value
For the assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis (categorized in the valuation hierarchy table below), the Company applies the following valuation techniques:
Available-for-sale securities
Available-for-sale debt securities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Fair value measurement is based on quoted prices, including estimates by third-party pricing services, if available. If quoted prices are not available, fair values are measured using proprietary valuation models that utilize market observable parameters from active market makers and inter-dealer brokers whereby securities are valued based upon available market data for securities with similar characteristics. Management reviews the pricing information received from the Company’s third-party pricing service to evaluate the inputs and valuation methodologies used to place securities into the appropriate level of the fair value hierarchy and transfers of securities within the fair value hierarchy are made if necessary. On a monthly basis, management reviews the pricing information received from the third-party pricing service which includes a comparison to non-binding third-party broker quotes, as well as a review of market-related conditions impacting the information provided by the third-party pricing service. Management also identifies investment securities which may have traded in illiquid or inactive markets by identifying instances of a significant decrease in the volume or frequency of trades, relative to historical levels, as well as instances of a significant widening of the bid-ask spread in the brokered markets. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, management did not make adjustments to prices provided by the third-party pricing services as a result of illiquid
or inactive markets. The Company’s third-party pricing service has also established processes for the Company to submit inquiries regarding quoted prices. Periodically, the Company will challenge the quoted prices provided by the third-party pricing service. The Company’s third-party pricing service will review the inputs to the evaluation in light of the new market data presented by the Company. The Company’s third-party pricing service may then affirm the original quoted price or may update the evaluation on a going forward basis. The Company classifies all available-for-sale securities as Level 2.
Derivatives
Most of the Company’s derivatives are traded in over-the-counter markets where quoted market prices are not readily available. For those derivatives, the Company measures fair value on a recurring basis using proprietary valuation models that primarily use market observable inputs, such as yield curves, and option volatilities. The fair value of derivatives includes values associated with counterparty credit risk and the Company’s own credit standing. The Company classifies these derivatives, included in other assets and other liabilities, as Level 2.
Concurrent with the sale of the Visa Class B restricted shares, the Company entered into an agreement with the buyer that requires payment to the buyer in the event Visa reduces each member bank’s Class B conversion rate to unrestricted Class A common shares. On July 5, 2018, Visa announced a decrease in conversion rate from 1.6483 to 1.6298 effective June 28, 2018. Additionally, on September 30, 2019, Visa announced a decrease in conversion rate from 1.6298 to 1.6228, effective September 27, 2019. The Visa derivative of $4.6 million and $4.2 million was included in the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, to provide for the fair value of this liability. The potential liability related to this funding swap agreement was determined based on management’s estimate of the timing and the amount of Visa’s litigation settlement and the resulting payments due to the counterparty under the terms of the contract. As such, the funding swap agreement is classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the Company’s funding swap agreement are the potential future changes in the conversion rate, expected term and growth rate of the market price of Visa Class A common shares. Material increases (or decreases) in any of those inputs may result in a significantly higher (or lower) fair value measurement.
Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 are summarized below:
(1)Backed by residential real estate.
(2)As of December 31, 2020, other assets classified as Level 1 include mutual funds and money market funds that have quoted prices in active markets and are related to the Company’s deferred compensation plans. Other assets classified as Level 2 include derivative assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
(3)Other liabilities include derivative liabilities.
Changes in Fair Value Levels
For any transfers in and out of the levels of the fair value hierarchy, the Company discloses the fair value measurement at the beginning of the reporting period during which the transfer occurred. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, there were no transfers between fair value hierarchy levels.
The changes in Level 3 liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 are summarized below:
Assets and Liabilities Carried at Other Than Fair Value
The following tables summarize for the periods indicated the estimated fair value of the Company’s financial instruments that are not required to be carried at fair value on a recurring basis, excluding leases and deposit liabilities with no defined or contractual maturity:
(1)Excludes financing leases of $245.4 million at December 31, 2020 and $202.5 million at December 31, 2019.
(2)Excludes deposit liabilities with no defined or contractual maturity of $16.9 billion at December 31, 2020 and $13.9 billion at December 31, 2019.
(3)Excludes capital lease obligations of $10 thousand and $19 thousand at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Unfunded loan and lease commitments and letters of credit are not included in the tables above. As of both December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company had $6.1 billion of unfunded loan and lease commitments and letters of credit. A reasonable estimate of the fair value of these instruments is the carrying value of deferred fees plus the related reserve for unfunded commitments, which totaled $42.3 million and $14.4 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. No active trading market exists for these instruments and the estimated fair value does not include value associated with the borrower relationship. The Company does not estimate the fair values of certain unfunded loan and lease commitments that can be canceled by providing notice to the borrower. As Company-level data is incorporated into the fair value measurement, unfunded loan and lease commitments and letters of credit are classified as Level 3.
Valuation Techniques Used in the Fair Value Measurement of Assets and Liabilities Carried at the Lower of Cost or Fair Value
The Company applies the following valuation techniques to assets measured at the lower of cost or fair value:
Mortgage servicing rights
MSRs are carried at the lower of cost or fair value and are therefore subject to fair value measurements on a nonrecurring basis. The fair value of MSRs is determined using models which use significant unobservable inputs, such as estimates of prepayment rates, the resultant weighted average lives of the MSRs and the option-adjusted spread levels. Accordingly, the Company classifies MSRs as Level 3.
Collateral-dependent loans
Collateral-dependent loans are those for which repayment is expected to be provided substantially through the operation or sale of the collateral. These loans are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis using collateral values as a practical expedient. The fair values of collateral are primarily based on real estate appraisal reports prepared by third-party appraisers less estimated selling costs. The Company measures the estimated credit losses on collateral-dependent loans by performing a lower-of-cost-or-fair-value analysis. If the estimated credit losses are determined by the value of the collateral, the net carrying amount is adjusted to fair value on a nonrecurring basis as Level 3 by recognizing an allowance for credit losses.
Other real estate owned
The Company values these properties at fair value at the time the Company acquires them, which establishes their new cost basis. After acquisition, the Company carries such properties at the lower of cost or fair value less estimated selling costs on a nonrecurring basis. Fair value is measured on a nonrecurring basis using collateral values as a practical expedient. The fair values of collateral for other real estate owned are primarily based on real estate appraisal reports prepared by third-party appraisers less disposition costs and are classified as Level 3.
Assets and Liabilities Recorded at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis
The Company may be required to record certain assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis in accordance with GAAP. These assets are subject to fair value adjustments that result from the application of lower of cost or fair value accounting or write-downs of individual assets to fair value.
The following table provides the level of valuation inputs used to determine each fair value adjustment and the fair value of the related individual assets or portfolio of assets with fair value adjustments on a nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2020 and 2019:
Total losses on collateral-dependent loans for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were $0.4 million, $1.0 million and $0.7 million, respectively.
For Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring or nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurements were as follows:
(1)The fair value of these assets is determined based on appraised values of the collateral or broker opinions, the range of which is not meaningful to disclose.
(2)Due to the uncertainty in the movement of the conversion rate, the current conversion rate was utilized in the fair value calculation.
(3)The expected term of 1 year was based on the median of 0.5 to 1.5 years.
(4)The growth rate of 13% was based on the arithmetic average of analyst price targets.
23. Reportable Operating Segments
The Company’s operations are organized into three business segments - Retail Banking, Commercial Banking and Treasury and Other. These segments reflect how discrete financial information is currently evaluated by the chief operating decision maker and how performance is assessed and resources allocated. The Company’s internal management process measures the performance of these business segments. This process, which is not necessarily comparable with similar information for any other financial institution, uses various techniques to assign balance sheet and income statement amounts to the business segments, including allocations of income, expense, the provision for credit losses and capital. This process is dynamic and requires certain allocations based on judgment and other subjective factors. Unlike financial accounting, there is no comprehensive authoritative guidance for management accounting that is equivalent to GAAP.
The net interest income of the business segments reflects the results of a funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics and reflects the allocation of net interest income related to the Company’s overall asset and liability management activities on a proportionate basis. The basis for the allocation of net interest income is a function of the Company’s assumptions that are subject to change based on changes in current interest rates and market conditions. Funds transfer pricing also serves to transfer interest rate risk to Treasury.
The Company allocates the provision for credit losses from the Treasury and Other business segment (which is comprised of many of the Company’s support units) to the Retail and Commercial business segments. These allocations are based on direct costs incurred by the Retail and Commercial business segments.
Noninterest income and expense includes allocations from support units to the business segments. These allocations are based on actual usage where practicably calculated or by management’s estimate of such usage. Income tax expense is allocated to each business segment based on the consolidated effective income tax rate for the period shown.
Business Segments
Retail Banking
Retail Banking offers a broad range of financial products and services to consumers and small businesses. Loan and lease products offered include residential and commercial mortgage loans, home equity lines of credit, automobile loans and leases, personal lines of credit, installment loans and small business loans and leases. Deposit products offered include checking, savings and time deposit accounts. Retail Banking also offers wealth management services. Products and services from Retail Banking are delivered to customers through 54 banking locations throughout the State of Hawaii, Guam and Saipan.
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking offers products that include corporate banking, residential and commercial real estate loans, commercial lease financing, automobile loans and auto dealer financing, business deposit products and credit cards. Commercial lending and deposit products are offered primarily to middle-market and large companies locally, nationally and internationally.
Treasury and Other
Treasury consists of corporate asset and liability management activities including interest rate risk management. The segment’s assets and liabilities (and related interest income and expense) consist of interest-bearing deposits, investment securities, federal funds sold and purchased, government deposits, short- and long-term borrowings and bank-owned properties. The primary sources of noninterest income are from bank-owned life insurance, net gains from the sale of investment securities, foreign exchange income related to customer-driven currency requests from merchants and island visitors and management of bank-owned properties. The net residual effect of the transfer pricing of assets and liabilities is included in Treasury, along with the elimination of intercompany transactions.
Other organizational units (Technology, Operations, Credit and Risk Management, Human Resources, Finance, Administration, Marketing and Corporate and Regulatory Administration) provide a wide-range of support to the Company’s other income earning segments. Expenses incurred by these support units are charged to the business segments through an internal cost allocation process.
The following tables present selected business segment financial information for the years indicated:
(1) Includes $24.1 million in OTTI write-downs.
24. Parent Company
The following tables present Parent Company-only condensed financial statements:
ITEM 9.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 90b683e31725b4aaf65ffc7a65787277
- Approx. Length: 36630 characters