# Context

Item 1. Business.
Overview
We are a clinical-stage oncology company focused on developing next-generation radiopharmaceuticals as precision medicines. We have developed our Targeted Alpha Therapies, or TAT, platform together with our proprietary Fast-Clear linker technology to enable us to connect alpha particle emitting isotopes to antibodies and other targeting molecules in order to selectively deliver the alpha particle payloads to tumors. Our TAT platform is underpinned by our research and insights into the underlying biology of alpha emitting radiopharmaceuticals as well as our differentiated capabilities in target identification, candidate generation, manufacturing and supply chain and development of imaging diagnostics. We believe that our TATs have the potential to build on the successes of currently available radiopharmaceuticals and be broadly applicable across multiple targets and tumor types.
Our lead product candidate, FPI-1434, utilizes our Fast-Clear linker to connect a humanized monoclonal antibody that targets the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor, or IGF-1R, with the alpha emitting isotope actinium-225, or 225Ac. IGF-1R is a well-established tumor target that is found on numerous types of cancer cells but historical attempts to suppress tumors by inhibiting the IGF-1R signaling pathway have been unsuccessful in the clinic. For FPI-1434, we have designed the product candidate to rely on the IGF-1R antibody only as a way to identify and deliver our alpha emitting payload to the tumor, and the mechanism of action does not depend on the IGF-1R signaling pathway to kill the tumor. We are currently conducting a Phase 1 clinical trial of FPI-1434 as a monotherapy in patients with solid tumors expressing IGF-1R and convened a Safety Review Committee (“SRC”) meeting in the third quarter of 2020 to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the third dose escalation cohort of 40kBq/kg administered as a single dose. The available safety, dosimetry, pharmacokinetic and biodistribution data from the single dose escalation portion of the study provided justification for the initiation of FPI-1434 multi-dosing at 75kBq/kg and the SRC made the recommendation to proceed with dose escalation to 75kBq/kg administered as repeat doses. We dosed the first patient in the multi-dose escalation portion of the study in the fourth quarter of 2020. We anticipate reporting Phase 1 multiple-dose safety and imaging data, and the recommended Phase 2 dose/schedule, in the first half of 2022. Based on the mechanisms of action of FPI-1434 and data from our preclinical studies, we are also evaluating the combination potential of FPI-1434 with checkpoint inhibitors as well DNA damage response inhibitors. In addition, we are progressing our earlier-stage product candidate, FPI-1966, into clinical development, and expect to submit an investigational new drug application, or IND, for FPI-1966 for the treatment of head and neck and bladder cancers expressing fibroblast growth factor receptor 3, or FGFR3, in the second quarter of 2021.
Radiopharmaceuticals are drugs that contain medical isotopes, which are unstable elements that emit radiation and can be used to diagnose and treat cancers. To create targeted radiopharmaceuticals, radiation emitting medical isotopes are typically attached to targeting molecules, which are then administered via intravenous injection. Once administered, the radiopharmaceuticals selectively target tumor antigens that are unique to, or preferentially expressed on, cancer cells throughout the body. There are two main classes of therapeutic radiopharmaceuticals, which differ based on the types of particles that are emitted-those based on beta emitting isotopes and those based on alpha emitting isotopes. Beta emitting isotopes damage cancer cells primarily by creating free radicals that damage cellular machinery and cause single-stranded DNA breaks, which can be repaired by the cell. In contrast, alpha particles cause greater physical damage to cancer cells than beta particles, including multiple double-stranded DNA breaks, which are highly lethal. Alpha particles are larger and have higher energy transfer rates than beta particles. This higher energy transfer rate allows alpha particles to deposit a greater amount of tumor-killing energy over a short distance of one to two cells, compared to the relatively long distance of up to 12 mm for beta particles, allowing alpha particles to cause damage only to cancer cells in close proximity while reducing off-target radiation risk.
We are leveraging our proprietary TAT platform to build on the successes of currently available radiation therapies and create the next-generation of precision oncology radiopharmaceuticals. Our TATs are comprised of three components: (i) a targeting molecule, such as a monoclonal antibody or other delivery vehicle, that is designed to selectively target antigens that are unique to, or preferentially expressed on, cancer cells throughout the body; (ii) the alpha emitting medical isotope 225Ac, designed to kill cancer cells; and (iii) our proprietary Fast-Clear linker that attaches the targeting molecule to the radioactive payload. Our Fast-Clear linker has shown in preclinical studies the differentiated ability to promote enhanced clearance of the non-tumor localized 225Ac payload without sacrificing the uptake of 225Ac into the tumor, which we believe will improve tolerability and widen the therapeutic window of our product candidates.
We believe that our TAT platform and product candidates, if approved, could provide several potential advantages over currently available radiopharmaceuticals, including:
•
enhanced tumor-killing power by using alpha particle radiation;
•
ability to use multiple targets and classes of targeting molecules;
•
broad applicability across multiple tumor types;
•
increased tolerability and therapeutic window associated with our Fast-Clear linker;
•
exploitation of multiple mechanisms of action, including direct DNA damage and an alpha particle-mediated enhanced anti-tumor immune response;
•
an established manufacturing process and supply chain; and
•
ability to use imaging diagnostics to enrich our targeted patient populations.
Our lead product candidate, FPI-1434, is designed to target and deliver an alpha emitting isotope to cancer cells expressing IGF-1R, a receptor that is overexpressed on many tumor types. FPI-1434 is designed to utilize our Fast-Clear linker to connect a human monoclonal antibody that targets IGF-1R with 225Ac, a powerful alpha emitting isotope with desirable half-life and decay chain properties. In preclinical studies, FPI-1434 was able to cause tumor regression in mouse models in a dose-dependent manner by delivering 225Ac to the tumor site and creating multiple double-stranded DNA breaks. At higher doses, FPI-1434 was able to eradicate tumors with a single dose. In preclinical studies, FPI-1434 has demonstrated high specificity and binding capability in a variety of different tumor types, with no noticeable effect on the biological function of the antibody as a result of connecting the naked antibody to 225Ac with our Fast-Clear linker to form our TAT.
We are currently evaluating FPI-1434 as a monotherapy in the dose escalation portion of a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with IGF-1R positive solid tumors to assess its safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics as well as to identify the maximum tolerated dose, or MTD, and the recommended Phase 2 dose. As part of the screening process, patients are administered the imaging analogue of FPI-1434, which utilizes the same linker and targeting molecule, but replaces 225Ac with the radioactive imaging isotope indium-111, or 111In, and only those who meet predefined tumor uptake and dosimetry, or radiation dose, standards are advanced into the trial. We convened an SRC meeting in the third quarter of 2020 to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the third dose escalation cohort of 40kBq/kg administered as a single dose. The SRC made the recommendation to proceed with dose escalation to 75kBq/kg administered as repeat doses. We dosed the first patient in the multi-dose escalation portion of the study in the fourth quarter of 2020. We anticipate reporting Phase 1 multiple-dose safety and imaging data, and the recommended Phase 2 dose/schedule, in the first half of 2022. Based on the data from this trial, along with immunohistochemistry data regarding IGF-1R positive tumors, we plan to prioritize the tumor types to evaluate in future trials of FPI-1434.
We believe the multiple mechanisms of action of our TATs may give them the ability to treat hard-to-treat solid tumors and the potential to work synergistically with other approved oncology therapies. The primary mechanism of action of 225Ac is direct cell damage through the induction of multiple double-stranded DNA breaks. A secondary mechanism, which would likely expand the effective direct cell kill range of the alpha particles, is referred to as the Bystander Effect. This effect has been shown to be as significant to the overall efficacy in killing cancer cells as the direct DNA breaks. The Bystander Effect has been shown to propagate alpha particle-induced cell death from irradiated dying cells to kill adjacent non-irradiated cells up to 1,000 µm away in a three-dimensional solid tumor model. We have observed a third potential mechanism of action as a result of the destruction of tumor cells through alpha radiation in our preclinical studies. Specifically, when alpha radiation destroyed tumor cells, it led to the release of tumor-associated antigens and concomitant maturation of antigen-presenting cells, or APCs, which activated and proliferated T cells at tumor sites, even in the absence of the targeted antigen. Based on this alpha-mediated immune response, we believe that the combination of our TATs with checkpoint inhibitors may lead to a robust therapeutic effect in solid tumors as compared to checkpoint inhibitor monotherapies and, in our preclinical studies, we have observed robust synergistic anti-tumor effects when combining FPI-1434 with approved checkpoint inhibitors.
We are also exploring the potential of combining FPI-1434 with DNA damage response inhibitors, or DDRis, such as PARP inhibitors. In cancer patients with pre-existing genetic defects in double-stranded DNA break repair, the PARP pathway becomes a primary DNA repair system and inhibition of that pathway results in cell death. In our preclinical studies, we have seen a strong synergistic effect by combining FPI-1434 with approved PARP inhibitors. We are conducting additional preclinical studies of FPI-1434 in combination with approved checkpoint inhibitors and DDRis, including PARP inhibitors, to further assess the anti-tumor activity, dosing schedule and pharmacodynamics of the combinations. We believe that the synergies we have observed could expand the addressable patient populations for FPI-1434 and allow for potential
use in earlier lines of treatment, if approved, after completing the initial evaluation of FPI-1434 in a relapsed or refractory patient population. In addition, we believe these combinations with FPI-1434, if approved, could potentially expand the addressable markets of several currently approved oncology therapeutics.
In November 2020, we announced a strategic collaboration agreement with AstraZeneca UK Limited, or AstraZeneca, to jointly discover, develop and commercialize next-generation alpha-emitting radiopharmaceuticals and combination therapies for the treatment of cancer. The collaboration leverages Fusion’s TATs platform and expertise in radiopharmaceuticals with AstraZeneca’s leading portfolio of antibodies and cancer therapeutics, including DDRis. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, the companies will jointly discover, develop and commercialize novel TATs, which will utilize Fusion’s Fast-Clear™ linker technology platform with antibodies in AstraZeneca’s oncology portfolio. In addition, the companies will exclusively explore certain specified combination strategies between TATs (including Fusion’s lead candidate FPI-1434) and AstraZeneca therapeutics, for the treatment of various cancers. Both companies will retain full rights to their respective assets.
We are also leveraging our TAT platform to progress our earlier-stage product candidates, including FPI-1966, into clinical development. We have designed FPI-1966 to target and deliver 225Ac to tumors expressing FGFR3, a protein that is overexpressed in head and neck and bladder cancers. We expect to submit an IND for FPI-1966 for the treatment of head and neck and bladder cancers expressing FGFR3 in the second quarter of 2021. To further expand our pipeline, we have in-licensed, and are continuing to in-license, additional targeting molecules for the development of TATs that are in various stages of discovery and preclinical development.
Our company was founded to advance certain intellectual property relating to radiopharmaceuticals that had been developed by the Centre for Probe Development and Commercialization, or CPDC, which we believe is a center of excellence and recognized leader in the field of radiopharmaceutical manufacturing. Our founder and Chief Executive Officer, John Valliant, Ph.D., who has 25 years of experience working in the radiopharmaceutical field, was the founder and CEO with responsibility for financing the CPDC and for delivering on its vision and mission. Over nearly a decade of work at the CPDC, members of our management team, specifically our Chief Scientific Officer, Eric Burak, developed our proprietary Fast-Clear linker technology to enable the delivery of alpha emitting radiopharmaceuticals to tumor cells while simultaneously promoting enhanced clearance of the non-tumor localized isotopes. We have developed robust manufacturing and supply chain capabilities for TATs. In addition, we have assembled a management team with extensive experience with radiopharmaceuticals, preclinical and clinical development of oncology therapies, commercialization and business development. We completed our initial public offering (or “IPO”) in June of 2020 and currently have cash and investments to fund operations through 2023.
Our Pipeline
We are leveraging our TAT platform and Fast-Clear linker technology to advance a pipeline of alpha-based therapeutic programs to treat various cancers. The figure below details our current pipeline of TATs.
Background of Radiation-Based Therapies and Radiopharmaceuticals
External beam radiation, or ExB, is one of the most widely used treatments for cancer, with approximately 50% of all cancer patients receiving radiation therapy during the course of treatment. To deliver ExB, a radiation therapy device is used to aim a beam of ionizing radiation into the tumor to kill cancer cells. Based on advances in radiation technology, ExB is highly effective in killing cancer cells and this treatment modality contributes towards approximately 40% of curative treatment for cancer. However, despite the successes of ExB treatment, only a limited number of sites in the body can be irradiated at any time by this treatment due to the off-target effects of radiation that can damage normal tissues. In addition, not all types of cancers can be treated with ExB, as certain organs or tumor types may be difficult to access with radiation beams. As a result, ExB use has generally been restricted to treating localized tumors and is not typically used as a monotherapy to treat patients who have metastatic disease.
Evolution of Radiopharmaceuticals
Radiopharmaceuticals have been developed as a way to precisely apply the tumor-killing power of radiation to a wider array of cancers, including for patients who have metastatic disease. Radiopharmaceuticals are drugs that contain medical isotopes, which are unstable elements that emit radiation and can be used to diagnose and treat cancers. To create radiopharmaceuticals, radiation emitting medical isotopes are typically attached to targeting molecules and administered via intravenous injection. Once administered, the radiopharmaceuticals selectively target tumor antigens that are unique to, or preferentially expressed on, cancer cells throughout the body. Currently available targeted radiopharmaceuticals have demonstrated the ability to simultaneously bind to and kill multiple tumors.
Alpha vs. Beta Radiopharmaceuticals
There are two main classes of therapeutic radiopharmaceuticals, which differ based on the types of particles that are emitted-those based on beta emitting isotopes and those based on alpha emitting isotopes. Historically, due to the readily available supply of beta emitting isotopes and the better understanding of their chemistry and biology, they were more widely used than alpha emitting isotopes. As a result, first-generation targeted therapeutic radiopharmaceuticals were based on beta emitting isotopes, which kill cancer cells primarily by creating free radicals that damage cellular machinery and cause single-stranded DNA breaks, which can be repaired by the cell. As a result, certain cancers are refractory to beta particle-based radiopharmaceutical treatment, especially those with low oxygen levels (hypoxic tumors). Products based on beta emitting
isotopes have been developed successfully, but as the development of radiopharmaceuticals continued to evolve, a deeper understanding of the potential of alpha emitting isotopes for treating cancer has emerged.
Compared to beta particles, alpha particles cause greater physical damage to cancer cells, including multiple double-stranded DNA breaks, for which there is no viable resistance mechanism, unlike in the case of single-stranded DNA breaks. Double-stranded DNA breaks are highly lethal, with even a single double-stranded break being sufficient to cause cancer cell death. Alpha particles are 8,000 times larger than beta particles with an approximately 4,000-fold higher energy transfer rate, providing alpha particles with the advantage of depositing a high amount of tumor-killing energy over a short distance of one to two cells, compared to the relatively long distance of up to 12 mm for beta particles. The amount of energy produced by alpha particles is high enough such that only a small number of alpha particles are required to cause cell death, including those with low oxygen levels. This feature, when combined with their short path length, enables alpha particles to cause damage only to cancer cells in close proximity, reducing the risk of off-target radiation and normal cell damage that can occur with beta particles. However, because of the short travel distance, alpha particles need to be delivered into or on the surface of tumor cells to achieve the desired therapeutic effect.
The graphic below illustrates a comparison of the key differences between beta particles and alpha particles.
*
Molecule size and arrows representing travel distance shown for illustrative purposes only and not drawn to scale.
Commercially Available Radiopharmaceuticals
Two of the earliest antibody targeted radiopharmaceuticals, Bexxar and Zevalin, are beta emitting therapies for the treatment of CD20 positive lymphomas. Despite receiving approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, Bexxar and Zevalin proved difficult to handle commercially and required specialized rooms for administration, which limited the number of sites that could deliver the treatment and market acceptance of the therapies. Usage of Bexxar and Zevalin was also hampered by supply chain issues, including the need for some on-site production and handling, and reimbursement challenges due to the logistics of medical oncologists having to manage the patients while nuclear medicine physicians administered the therapies. These challenges limited the commercial success of these first-generation radiopharmaceuticals.
Since that time, next-generation radiopharmaceuticals have been developed and approved. The first and only approved alpha emitting therapy is Xofigo, a salt of radium that naturally localizes to regions where cancer cells are infiltrating bone. Xofigo was approved in 2013 for the treatment of bone metastases associated with prostate cancer. Unlike some of the first-generation targeted radiopharmaceutical therapies, Xofigo utilizes centralized manufacturing, can be administered in typical oncology suites and has overcome reimbursement challenges. In addition, the approval and demonstrated efficacy of Xofigo show that alpha emitting therapies can be a safe and effective way to eradicate cancer cells. Despite Xofigo’s use being limited to its approved label due to its inability to be robustly connected to a targeting molecule, Xofigo has been widely adopted and used in over 1,100 sites in the U.S. alone, with worldwide sales of approximately $300 million in 2020. Another
next-generation targeted radiopharmaceutical therapy that has been recently approved is Lutathera, a beta emitting therapy. Since its approval in 2018, annual worldwide sales of Lutathera reached $445 million in 2020, despite only being approved recently and for only a subset of neuroendocrine cancers.
Our Targeted Alpha Therapies Platform and Fast-Clear Linker Technology
Overview
We believe that we can build on Xofigo’s proven mechanism of action as an alpha emitting therapy and Lutathera’s initial commercial success as a targeted radiopharmaceutical. We are developing the next generation of precision oncology TATs that have the potential to treat a large population of cancer patients across multiple tumor types, including those with metastatic disease. By leveraging our proprietary TAT platform, we aim to develop alpha emitting radiopharmaceuticals that can be attached to targeting molecules to deliver the radioactive payload directly to difficult to treat tumors. The foundation of our TAT platform is our Fast-Clear linker technology, which is designed to enable us to connect our alpha emitting isotope of choice, 225Ac, to a desired targeting molecule to deliver radiation directly to cancer cells. Unlike commercially available linkers, our proprietary Fast-Clear linker has shown in preclinical studies the differentiated ability to promote enhanced clearance of the non-tumor localized 225Ac payload without sacrificing the uptake of the alpha particle into the tumor. Rapid clearance of the alpha emitting isotope from normal tissues is important to enhance tolerability and widen the therapeutic window of our product candidates. In addition to our Fast-Clear linker technology, our TAT platform is underpinned by our research and insights into the underlying biology of alpha emitting radiopharmaceuticals as well as our capabilities in target identification, candidate generation, manufacturing and supply chain and development of imaging diagnostics.
As depicted in the figure below, our platform generates TATs that are comprised of three components: (i) a targeting molecule such as a monoclonal antibody or other delivery vehicle that is designed to selectively target antigens that are unique to, or preferentially expressed on, cancer cells throughout the body; (ii) the alpha emitting medical isotope 225Ac designed to kill cancer cells; and (iii) our proprietary Fast-Clear linker that attaches the targeting molecule to the radioactive payload.
We utilized our TAT platform to discover, design and develop our lead program, FPI-1434, which is currently in an ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial, and we plan to continue to leverage our platform to assess the potential of and develop multiple additional pipeline programs, including FPI-1966.
We believe that our TAT platform and product candidates, if approved, could provide several potential advantages over currently available radiopharmaceuticals, including:
•
enhanced tumor-killing power by using alpha particle radiation;
•
ability to use multiple targets and classes of targeting molecules;
•
broad applicability across multiple tumor types;
•
increased tolerability and therapeutic window associated with our Fast-Clear linker;
•
exploitation of multiple mechanisms of action, including direct DNA damage and an alpha particle-mediated enhanced anti-tumor immune response;
•
an established manufacturing process and supply chain; and
•
ability to use imaging diagnostics to enrich our targeted patient populations.
Our TAT Platform
Fast-Clear Linker Technology
In order to maximize the potential clinical benefit of radiopharmaceuticals to patients and minimize potential toxicity issues, we believe that TATs must selectively localize and remain within the tumor while the portions of the TAT that are not localized within the tumor are rapidly cleared from the body. Over nearly a decade of work at CPDC, we developed our proprietary Fast-Clear linker technology to enable the delivery of isotopes to tumor cells while simultaneously promoting enhanced clearance of the non-tumor localized isotopes. When our TATs are metabolized outside of cancer cells, the Fast-Clear linker, unlike standard commercial linkers, is designed to rapidly clear from the body along with any isotopes bound to the linker. We believe that our linker’s ability to promote clearance without compromising the tumor’s uptake of the alpha particle overcomes a longstanding challenge of radiopharmaceutical drug development.
As shown in the image below, our Fast-Clear linker has been observed in preclinical studies to clear 3.1 times the amount of non-tumor localized radiopharmaceuticals compared to the most widely used commercial linker, reducing radiation exposure to normal tissue. In our preclinical studies, we administered mice (n=5 in each dose group or vehicle group) with either an analogue of FPI-1434 or a radioimmunoconjugate utilizing a commercially available linker. Over a seven-day observation period following administration, we measured the amount of radioactivity excreted in the mice urine and feces to determine the amount of non-tumor localized radiopharmaceuticals cleared. We believe the ability of our Fast-Clear linker to clear more non-tumor localized radiopharmaceuticals than commercial linkers could widen the therapeutic window of our product candidates.
Fast-Clear Linker Promoted Enhanced Clearance of Non-Tumor Localized Radiopharmaceuticals
Our Fast-Clear linker is designed to be connected to several major classes of targeting molecules, as demonstrated in our preclinical studies. While our initial product candidates employ the same linker, we have developed a proprietary library of Fast-Clear linkers with distinct properties that may be used for future radiopharmaceutical candidates.
Our Choice of Alpha Emitter-Actinium-225
Although there are many alpha emitting isotopes, we believe that the ideal therapeutic isotope should emit multiple alpha particles in rapid succession in order to maximize damage to cancer cells and increase efficacy, while having a half-life long enough to allow for central manufacturing and distribution of products to clinical sites in a ready-to-use form. We are developing our TATs with 225Ac due to its unique decay chain and half-life properties. In particular, the 225Ac decay chain gives off four alpha emissions in rapid succession, maximizing the damage to the DNA of tumor cells before ultimately becoming a non-radioactive isotope. 225Ac has a half-life of 10 days, which we believe is the ideal window to allow for centralized manufacturing and distribution. Although some other alpha emitting isotopes, such as thorium-227, also have longer half-lives, 225Ac benefits from a more rapid decay profile that maximizes the energy density inside the cancer cell,
which we believe enhances tumor-killing power. Other alpha emitting isotopes, such as lead-212, have shorter half-lives and decay in several hours, which causes centralized manufacturing and commercial distribution challenges.
Alpha particles kill tumors through multiple mechanisms. The primary mechanism of action is direct cell damage through the induction of multiple double-stranded DNA breaks. As alpha particles traverse the nucleus of a cell, they create a linear track of direct chromosomal damage, leaving behind multiple clusters of double-stranded DNA breaks. These direct alpha particle hits induce cell kill up to a distance of 100 µm, which is equal to a depth of a few cells. A secondary mechanism, which would expand effective direct cell kill range of the alpha particle, is referred to as the Bystander Effect. This effect has been shown to be as significant to the overall efficacy in killing cancer cells as the direct DNA breaks. The Bystander Effect has been shown to propagate alpha particle-induced cell death from irradiated dying cells to kill adjacent non-irradiated cells up to 1,000 µm away in a three-dimensional solid tumor model. In addition to these two mechanisms of action, in preclinical studies, we also observed that the tumor cell death mediated by 225Ac caused the release of tumor antigens, which were picked up by antigen-presenting cells and led to the induction of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells. We believe these CD8+ T cells can attack other tumors expressing the same antigen, even if those tumors do not express the receptor target of the targeting antibody of the TAT. In our preclinical studies, we observed that this third mechanism created a vaccine effect that prevented the regrowth of tumors upon re-challenge.
Our Chemistry and Biology Expertise with Actinium-225
We believe that our experience working with alpha emitting radiopharmaceuticals may position us to build on the success of currently approved radiopharmaceuticals by utilizing 225Ac and its advantages to develop next-generation radiopharmaceutical therapies. 225Ac has complex chemistry and requires extensive experience and expertise to develop and properly characterize 225Ac radiopharmaceuticals with the required tumor targeting, shelf-life, in vivo stability and potential for commercial-scale manufacturing. For example, the high energy emitted from 225Ac can cause product candidates to prematurely degrade. We believe we have the experience and know-how to develop molecules and formulations of 225Ac to maximize the shelf-life of our product candidates and allow for centralized production and distribution. In addition to a deep understanding of the chemistry of 225Ac, we have differentiated knowledge of the underlying biology of 225Ac and its mechanisms of directly damaging the DNA of tumors through single and double-stranded DNA breaks, causing the Bystander Effect and using the immune system’s adaptive response function to attack non-target expressing tumors in order to stimulate a vaccine effect.
Our Selection of Targets and Targeting Molecules
Our Fast-Clear linker is designed to be connected to several major classes of targeting molecules, including antibodies and other delivery vehicles. Our initial approach has been to in-license antibodies that have been in clinical development and have demonstrated the ability to localize in tumor cells with favorable tolerability data. We believe that the addition of an alpha emitting isotope to these types of antibodies can render the antibodies more potent than when they were used as protein-only therapies or as antibody drug conjugates, or ADCs. When these antibodies are used as the targeting molecule for a TAT, only a small amount of protein is required. In previous clinical trials, the naked antibody was administered at dose levels of protein ranging from 3 mg/kg to 24 mg/kg whereas in our ongoing Phase 1 clinical trial, we are administering FPI-1434 at significantly lower dose levels of protein ranging from 0.007 mg/kg to 0.013 mg/kg. We believe these low levels make it possible to avoid down regulation of the target and toxicity issues that may have been associated with higher doses of these antibodies when used as protein-only therapies or ADCs. This creates an extensive pool of potential targets and targeting molecule candidates from which to develop novel TATs, including: (i) molecules with good tumor cell targeting but poor efficacy, (ii) molecules with good efficacy but poor safety profiles and (iii) life-cycle management opportunities for commercially available molecules. Potential candidates can come from discontinued programs, novel molecules currently in development, approved molecules or other proprietary agents.
We have developed a proprietary algorithm to identify targeting molecules and their targets that we believe would make ideal TATs. The factors that we consider in choosing targeting molecules include expression levels of target receptors on tumors versus normal tissues, accessibility, rapidly internalizing receptors to concentrate alpha particles inside tumor cells, clinical need and the size of the addressable market. To date, we have identified a list of at least 20 priority tumor antigens that we believe represent viable opportunities to develop into novel TATs when used in conjunction with our platform as a way to expand our pipeline of next-generation precision alpha emitting radiopharmaceuticals.
Candidate Generation
Our TAT platform has the ability to rapidly generate potential product candidates for testing in a reproducible manner. We begin the assessment of a potential targeting molecule by first adding one of our Fast-Clear linkers to the antibody. Following characterization, our radiochemistry team uses established procedures to label the molecule with a radioisotope and evaluate whether the addition of the Fast-Clear linker does not affect the binding affinity and biological function of the antibody. Once confirmed, we perform biodistribution studies in human tumor xenograft models to assess uptake of the radioisotope in the tumor versus normal tissues. This is followed by preliminary preclinical efficacy studies using the 225Ac radiolabeled version of the antibody to assess whether the TAT should be advanced to longer term preclinical efficacy and toxicity studies. It typically takes six to nine months from the receipt of a targeting molecule to the commencement of studies enabling an IND that includes the evaluation of different doses and dose schedules in a variety of tumor types, as well as dosimetry and toxicity studies. The graphic below illustrates our candidate generation process.
Manufacturing and Supply Chain Capabilities
We were founded to advance certain intellectual property relating to radiopharmaceuticals that had been developed by CPDC, which was founded in 2008 and which we believe is a recognized leader and a national center of excellence in the field of radiopharmaceutical manufacturing. We have retained access to CPDC’s infrastructure and capabilities under a preferred master services agreement. We have developed a supply chain to receive 225Ac from producers, such as the DoE, assemble and manufacture the finished radiopharmaceutical candidates by connecting the 225Ac to the targeting antibody with our proprietary Fast-Clear linkers and have the ability to supply the finished product candidates to global clinical sites, including those in Canada, the United States and Australia. We also have internal manufacturing expertise, which facilitates rapid tech transfer to other third-party manufacturers, and extensive experience in managing the full supply chain for radiopharmaceuticals. We have contracted with Cardinal Health as an additional manufacturer of our TAT product candidates.
Imaging Diagnostics
For each of our product candidates, we create an imaging analogue that utilizes the same linker and targeting molecule but replaces 225Ac with the commercially used radioactive imaging isotope 111In. This allows us to assess uptake of the imaging analogue into the targeted tumor and to determine radiation doses to key organs. The imaging analogue versions of our product candidates are leveraged in both preclinical and clinical development and are used to enrich the patient population in our clinical trials by identifying the patients and tumor types more likely to respond to therapy.
Our Programs
FPI-1434: A Targeted Alpha Therapy Targeting IGF-1R
Overview
Our lead product candidate, FPI-1434, is designed to target IGF-1R, a transmembrane receptor tyrosine kinase that is overexpressed in multiple types of common solid tumors, including ovarian, sarcoma, head and neck, prostate, non-small cell lung, colorectal and liver cancers, as shown in the table below, making it a potentially attractive target for cancer therapies. The overexpression of IGF-1R is associated with faster disease progression, poor prognosis, metastasis and resistance to
chemotherapy. IGF-1R is a well-established tumor target, but historical attempts to suppress tumor growth or enhance the effectiveness of chemotherapies by inhibiting the IGF-1R signaling pathway were unsuccessful in the clinic. Previous development of therapeutics focused on blocking the IGF-1R signaling pathway with an anti-IGF-1R antibody, either directly or through its downstream effectors. The development of these product candidates was hampered by limited efficacy, due to a variety of factors, including the tumor’s ability to upregulate compensatory growth mechanisms. For FPI-1434, we have designed the product candidate to rely on the IGF-1R antibody only as a way to identify and deliver our alpha emitting payload to the tumor, and the mechanism of action does not depend on the IGF-1R signaling pathway to kill the tumor.
Prevalence of IGF-1R Expression in Tumor Types
We designed FPI-1434 to target and deliver an alpha emitting isotope to cancer cells expressing IGF-1R. FPI-1434 is designed to utilize our Fast-Clear linker to connect a human monoclonal antibody that targets IGF-1R with 225Ac. In selecting our targeting molecule for FPI-1434, we analyzed a variety of available IGF-1R antibodies to evaluate their potential as delivery vehicles for 225Ac, including key properties such as selectivity, binding affinity and toxicity profile. After analyzing each candidate, we in-licensed AVE-1642, an antibody from Immunogen, Inc., or Immunogen, that had previously been evaluated in Phase 2 clinical trials in collaboration with Sanofi S.A., as both a monotherapy and combination therapy, in a variety of IGF-1R positive tumors. Approximately 140 patients received AVE-1642 in clinical trials. Although the antibody was observed to be well-tolerated with positive pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic data, it failed to demonstrate sufficient positive therapeutic efficacy and further development was terminated. Because we are utilizing the antibody only as a way to identify and deliver the 225Ac payload into the tumor and the mechanism of action of FPI-1434 does not depend on the IGF-1R signaling pathway to kill the tumor, we do not believe that the lack of efficacy observed for the antibody itself in previous trials will impact the potential anti-tumor activity of FPI-1434.
In our preclinical studies, we observed that FPI-1434 penetrated solid tumors, delivered the alpha particle to the tumor site and created dose-dependent double-stranded DNA breaks. We are currently evaluating FPI-1434 as a monotherapy in the dose escalation portion of a Phase 1 clinical trial in patients with IGF-1R positive solid tumors to assess its safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics as well as to identify the MTD and potentially the recommended Phase 2 dose. As part of the screening process, patients are administered the imaging analogue of FPI-1434, which replaces 225Ac with a radioactive imaging isotope while retaining the same Fast-Clear linker and targeting antibody, and only those who meet predefined tumor uptake and dosimetry standards are advanced to receive treatment in the trial. We convened an SRC meeting in the third quarter of 2020 to evaluate the safety and tolerability of the third dose escalation cohort of 40kBq/kg administered as a single dose. The SRC made the recommendation to proceed with dose escalation to 75kBq/kg administered as repeat doses. We dosed the first patient in the multi-dose escalation portion of the study in the fourth quarter of 2020. We anticipate reporting Phase 1 multiple-dose safety and imaging data, and the recommended Phase 2 dose/schedule, in the first half of 2022.
FPI-1434 as a Monotherapy
Overview of Preclinical Development
In preclinical studies, FPI-1434 was able to cause tumor regression in a dose-dependent manner by delivering 225Ac to the tumor site and creating multiple double-stranded DNA breaks. At higher doses, FPI-1434 was able to eradicate tumors with a single dose. Our targeting antibody was able to deliver 225Ac to the tumor site and create multiple double-stranded DNA breaks that increased over time and were pervasive throughout the tumor. An imaging analogue of FPI-1434 was able to bind with high selectivity to its target in a variety of different tumor types, and in a manner that was approximately proportional to the amount of target expressed on the surface of cancer cells. In addition, there was no noticeable effect observed in our preclinical studies on the biological function of the antibody as a result of connecting the naked antibody to 225Ac with our Fast-Clear linker to form FPI-1434. We believe that the data generated from these preclinical studies demonstrates the potential of FPI-1434 as a monotherapy for the treatment of a variety of cancers.
Preclinical Studies of FPI-1434
We evaluated the anti-tumor activity of FPI-1434 using mouse models of prostate, lung and colorectal cancer. In these studies, tumors were established in immunodeficient mice by injecting human tumor cells and allowing them to grow for a minimum of seven days to approximately 200 mm3 before dosing with either FPI-1434 or a sodium acetate solution serving as vehicle. FPI-1434 was administered across a dose range of 92.5 to 1,110 kilobecquerel per kilogram, or kBq/kg (n=5 in each dose group or vehicle group). Typically, these studies were conducted for approximately 28 days, with some studies continuing for up to 180 days to evaluate long-term survival and anti-tumor activity. As shown in the figures below, in each model, we observed that FPI-1434 suppressed tumor growth at lower doses and caused tumor regression at higher doses.
Preclinical Anti-Tumor Activity of FPI-1434 in Various Cancer Models
In a separate study of a colorectal mouse model, tumors were allowed to grow to a starting volume of greater than 380 mm3 prior to dosing with either FPI-1434 or vehicle (n=5 in each dose group and vehicle group). As shown below, tumor regression was observed at doses of 370 kBq/kg and 740 kBq/kg, demonstrating preclinical anti-tumor activity of FPI-1434 against large solid tumors.
Preclinical Anti-Tumor Activity of FPI-1434 in Colorectal Cancer Model in Large Solid Tumors
In a separate preclinical study in a colorectal mouse model, we observed that when the targeting antibody of FPI-1434 was used alone as a naked IGF-1R antibody, referred to as FPI-1175, it did not have single dose efficacy at antibody doses of up to 40 mg/kg, which is more than 120-fold higher than the 0.33 mg/kg of antibody in the efficacious 740 kBq/kg dose of FPI-1434. We believe that this study supports the lack of efficacy seen with the antibody alone in prior clinical trials, and more importantly, supports our use of the antibody solely as a targeting molecule to deliver the 225Ac payload to the tumor site to kill cancer cells.
Comparison of FPI-1434 to Naked Antibody on Tumor Progression in Colorectal Cancer Model
In a separate long-term study in a colorectal cancer mouse model, we observed extended anti-tumor activity of FPI-1434 in mice that received a single dose of FPI-1434 at the 92.5 kBq/kg, 370 kBq/kg or 740 kBq/kg dose levels (n=5 in each dose group or vehicle group), as shown in the graphs below. A group of control mice were dosed with vehicle and tumor
growth was monitored over 178 days. This study was an extended continuation of the above described single dose FPI-1434 study. FPI-1434 demonstrated suppression of tumor growth at the 92.5 kBq/kg dose and tumor regression was observed in the 370 kBq/kg and 740 kBq/kg dose groups, which continued for the duration of the study period. The control group had a median survival of 42 days post-treatment as compared to 66 days and 151 days for the 92.5 kBq/kg and 740 kBq/kg dose groups, respectively. Median survival of the 370 kBq/kg dose group remained undefined at study termination because some of the mice lived past the end of the study period. These differences in survival were statistically significant, with a p-value of less than 0.0001.
Effect of FPI-1434 on Survival Rates in Colorectal Cancer Mouse Model
Non-Human Primate Toxicity Study
In order to assess the potential toxicity of FPI-1434 before entering clinical trials, we conducted a non-human primate good laboratory practice, or GLP, toxicity study in which cynomolgus monkeys were administered one dose of control, 0.133 mg/kg of non-radiolabeled antibody conjugate or 9.25 kBq/kg, 37 kBq/kg or 147 kBq/kg of FPI-1434 via intravenous injection (n=3 males and 3 females in each group). One non-human primate in a mid-dose cohort was inadvertently administered a lower than intended dose. After dosing, all animals were observed for up to 26 weeks to assess the reversibility, persistence or delayed occurrence of effects.
FPI-1434-related hematology findings were generally consistent with the effects observed with approved radiopharmaceuticals, such as Xofigo and Lutathera, as well as ExB therapy when used on large areas, such as hips. In particular, we observed bone marrow suppression, which included decreased red blood cell mass, reticulocytes, platelets and white blood cells, across all FPI-1434 dose cohorts in a dose-dependent manner. All of these effects were partially to fully reversible by the end of the 6-month recovery period without intervention and generally resolved within two months. In light of the observed hematology effects, FPI-1434 was considered to be well-tolerated due to the general reversibility of the effects and the lack of impact on the health and well-being of the study animals.
FPI-1434-related histopathological findings were only observed at the highest FPI-1434 dose of 147 kBq/kg, which is approximately 20% greater than our planned maximum Phase 1 clinical trial single dose. These findings included severe atrophy of the testis and moderate to severe atrophy of the ovary, accompanied by secondary atrophic changes in uterus, cervix, vaginal epithelium and mammary glands. Several minimal to slight FPI-1434-related microscopic findings were also observed, including degeneration of the adrenal cortex at doses greater than or equal to 37 kBq/kg, inflammation of the stomach at the highest dose of 147 kBq/kg and splenic lymphoid depletion in females at the highest dose of 147 kBq/kg.
No FPI-1434-related mortality occurred in the study. We used the results of this toxicology study to design our Phase 1 dosing protocol, which is evaluating doses of FPI-1434 between 10 kBq/kg and 120 kBq/kg.
Ongoing Phase 1 Trial of FPI-1434
We are currently conducting a Phase 1, non-randomized, multi-center, open-label clinical trial in patients with solid tumors expressing IGF-1R to investigate the safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of FPI-1434 as well as to establish the MTD and potentially the recommended Phase 2 dose.
As part of the screening process for the trial, all patients are administered a single injection of 185 megabecquerel, or MBq, of FPI-1547, the imaging analogue of FPI-1434 which contains 111In instead of 225Ac, and SPECT and planar imaging is used to evaluate tumor uptake of the imaging isotope. In accordance with the trial protocol, patients that meet predefined uptake and dosimetry criteria for FPI-1547 are advanced into the trial and administered a single dose of FPI-1434 within approximately fourteen days of receiving the imaging analogue. Based on the findings from our preclinical safety studies, the protocol does not require patients to receive Spironolactone, a diuretic, in advance of receiving FPI-1434 to protect against potential kidney toxicity concerns.
We have completed evaluation of single escalating doses of 10 kBq/kg, 20 kBq/kg, and 40 kBq/kg of FPI-1434 across three cohorts in a total of 12 patients. Fusion convened a Safety Review Committee (SRC) meeting in the third quarter of 2020 to evaluate the safety of the single-dose cohort of 40kBq/kg (cohort three). The SRC determined the safety data of cohort three allowed Fusion to begin the multi-dosing portion of the study at the next higher planned dose level. In December 2020, we dosed the first patient in the multi-dosing portion of the Phase 1 study.
The multi-dose study follows completion of the single-dose portion of the Phase 1 study, which showed that FPI-1434 was generally well tolerated with no dose limiting toxicities or treatment-related serious adverse events reported to date. The multi-dose portion of the study is expected to enroll patients at sites in Canada, the United States and Australia. The initial patient cohort is being dosed with FPI-1434 at 75kBq/kg with repeat cycles every six weeks up to allowable limits. We expect to report data and established recommended Phase 2 dose from the multi-dose portion of the study in the first half of 2022.
Four select examples of transaxial SPECT images from the single-dose portion of the study are shown below. The colored portions in the lesions show uptake of FPI-1547 by the tumor, with the more brightly colored portions indicating higher uptake levels. Based on the dosimetry data from patients administered FPI-1547 in the single-dose portion of the study, we believe that the highest dose levels of FPI-1434 that we are evaluating in this clinical trial are likely to be below the maximum tolerated limits of radiation exposure to the kidneys, liver and lungs.
Images are from selected patients. Although all 13 patients dosed with FPI-1547 met our predefined uptake and dosimetry criteria, the levels of tumor uptake and dosimetry varied by patient. These images are not necessarily indicative of expected uptake and dosimetry for every patient.
In the first two cohorts of patients administered both FPI-1547 and FPI-1434, we assessed the plasma pharmacokinetics of these patients by measuring the total radioactivity of either indium-111 or actinium-225, respectively. We converted the
radioactivity measurements to nanogram-equivalents of protein per gram of plasma to enable us to conduct the pharmacokinetic analysis. As shown below, the mean pharmacokinetic parameters suggest antibody-like distribution and an elimination half-life in the range of one to two days at the doses administered.
Other Preclinical Studies of FPI-1434
In order to assess FPI-1434’s binding affinity to IGF-1R, including the impact of adding the linker to the naked antibody, we compared FPI-1434’s ability to inhibit the signaling function of IGF-1 as compared to the naked IGF-1R antibody. In preclinical studies, we observed that the conjugation of the naked antibody with our Fast-Clear linker and 225Ac to form FPI-1434 demonstrated little to no impact on the ability to inhibit IGF-1R function when compared to the naked antibody.
We also measured the in vitro binding affinity of [177Lu]-FPI-1427 in an A431 epidermoid carcinoma cell culture model, a model in which IGF-1R is highly expressed. [177Lu]-FPI-1427 is an analogue of FPI-1434 that uses the same Fast-Clear linker and targeting molecule, but a different radioactive isotope. We used Lutetium-177, or 177Lu, as the radioactive isotope given its ease of detection and lower propensity to cause cell death in this model as compared to 225Ac. In this study, we observed a high binding affinity of [177Lu]-FPI-1427 to IGF-1R expressed on tumor cells, measured by equilibrium dissociation constant, or Kd. We have observed similar results when 225Ac or 111In was used as the alpha isotope in place of 177Lu.
We also performed binding studies of FPI-1427 using a panel of different human cancer cell lines expressing varying levels of IGF-1R. As shown in the table below, all cell lines tested demonstrated high affinity binding with Kd measured in the low nanometer, or nM, range. In addition, we observed that the Bmax binding parameter, which we used to estimate the maximum level of target sites available for drug binding, correlated with the expression levels of IGF-1R we observed in the various cell lines. We believe that this data demonstrates that our TATs are capable of binding the IGF-1R target on a variety of different cancer cell types in vitro and that binding is approximately proportional to the amount of target expressed on the cell’s surface.
Binding Parameters of Different Human Cancer Cell Lines
nM:
nanometer
fmol/mg: femtomole per milligram
Preclinical Mechanisms of Action Studies
In order to evaluate the potential multiple mechanisms of action of FPI-1434, we conducted multiple preclinical studies to evaluate FPI-1434’s ability to kill cancer cells. In one study, we treated mice with colorectal tumors for 28 days with either a sodium acetate solution serving as vehicle, the naked IGF-1R antibody used in FPI-1434, referred to as FPI-1175, or single doses of 9.25 kBq/kg, 37 kBq/kg, 370 kBq/kg or 740 kBq/kg of FPI-1434. We observed tumor cell death resulting from dose-dependent double-stranded DNA breaks throughout the FPI-1434-treated tumors compared to a negligible amount of naturally-occurring double-stranded DNA breaks seen in the vehicle and FPI-1175 groups. As shown in the immunohistochemical staining below, double-stranded DNA breaks, as depicted by the darker colored (black-brown) stains, were both dose-dependent and persistent by 28 days post-dosing.
Dose-Dependent and Persistent Double-Stranded DNA Breaks in Colorectal Mouse Model
In a separate study, we assessed the kinetics of double-stranded DNA breaks in mice with colorectal tumors. Mice in this study received either a single 740 kBq/kg dose of FPI-1434 or vehicle and tumors were harvested at 24, 96 and 168 hours post-dosing. As shown in the images below, double-stranded DNA breaks were detectable 24 hours post-treatment in the FPI-1434-treated tumors and were found at high density throughout the entire tumor mass by 96 hours post-treatment. High density double-stranded DNA breaks were observed in all areas of the treated tumor containing live or dying cancer cells at 168 hours post-treatment, but not in necrotic or acellular tumor regions. A negligible amount of double-stranded DNA breaks was observed in the vehicle-treated mice.
Increased Density of Double-Stranded DNA Breaks Observed Over Time
FPI-1434 as a Combination Therapy
Overview of Combination with Immunotherapies
The rationale for the combination FPI-1434 with approved immunotherapies stems from the documented immune-stimulating properties of ExB and the benefits observed in the preclinical models of ExB in combination with immunotherapies. When radiation destroys tumor cells, it leads to the release of tumor-associated antigens and concomitant maturation of APCs. Mature APCs loaded with the newly acquired tumor antigens then travel to the secondary lymphoid organs where they present them to naïve T cells, triggering their activation, proliferation and trafficking to tumor sites, even in the absence of the targeted antigen. In preclinical studies, we observed a synergistic effect on tumor suppression when using FPI-1434 in combination with checkpoint inhibitors. Based on our preclinical combination studies, we believe that
there is an opportunity to enhance the efficacy of approved checkpoint inhibitors in certain tumors by combining their use with FPI-1434 as well as the potential to move the use of FPI-1434 to earlier lines of therapy. In anticipation of filing an IND for these combination therapies, we are conducting additional preclinical studies of FPI-1434 in combination with approved checkpoint inhibitors to further assess the anti-tumor activity, dosing schedule and pharmacodynamics of the combinations. We plan to use the data gathered from these studies to support the initiation of a Phase 1 clinical trial of FPI-1434 in combination with approved checkpoint inhibitors. We expect to initiate a Phase 1 clinical trial for this combination approximately six to nine months after identifying the recommended Phase 2 dose for our ongoing monotherapy Phase 1 clinical trial of FPI-1434.
Preclinical Immunotherapy Combination Studies
In multiple preclinical studies, we evaluated the anti-tumor activity of combination therapies using FPI-1792, a murine version of the IGF-1R antibody connected to 225Ac through our Fast-Clear linker, with and without approved checkpoint inhibitors. In these studies, we used a syngeneic CT26 colon cancer model, which is considered to be moderately immunogenic. To evaluate anti-tumor activity, mice were subcutaneously implanted with CT26 cells and, once tumors reached 175 mm3, the mice were treated with either one injection of vehicle, three injections of an anti-CTLA-4 alone on days 1, 4 and 7, eight injections of an anti-PD-1 alone every 3-4 days, one injection of FPI-1792 alone or the respective combinations. We detected only transient and partial suppression of tumor growth in mice treated with either anti-PD-1 or anti-CTLA-4 alone as compared to the vehicle-treated controls. In mice that received FPI-1792 as a monotherapy, we observed a more pronounced and stable tumor growth suppression through day 28 than mice treated with either checkpoint inhibitor alone. In the combination groups, 13 out of 15 mice demonstrated tumor regression in excess of what was observed in the FPI-1792-only group at day 28.
To further investigate whether mice with regressing tumors would reject a secondary tumor formation, all of the surviving mice from the FPI-1792 monotherapy and combination groups in the study described above were re-challenged with CT26 cells at day 28, when there would be little to no effect remaining from the first administration of FPI-1792. Previously untreated mice were used as controls for this experiment. Neither the previously treated or untreated mice received any additional treatment during the re-challenge period. We observed that all of the untreated mice demonstrated exponential tumor growth, but rejection of the secondary tumor occurred in 13 out of 15 mice previously treated with either FPI-1792 alone or in combination with a checkpoint inhibitor, as shown below. We believe that the tumor rejection in the absence of continued treatment of the mice demonstrates that protective immunity was induced by treatment with FPI-1792. The results of this study also support the development of the potential alpha emitting therapy-mediated immune response, which we believe supports the potential of FPI-1434 to create a vaccination effect that synergizes with checkpoint inhibitors and leads to primary tumor shrinkage as well as secondary tumor rejection.
13 of 15 Animals Showed No Growth of a Secondary Tumor
To further evaluate the mechanism of action of FPI-1434 that we believe is responsible for the tumor suppression in re-challenged animals, we collected tissues from the control and combination therapy groups 14 days post-tumor re-challenge. Tumors were assessed for both T cell recruitment and presence of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells within the tumors. As shown in the graphs below, enumeration of antigen-specific CD8+ T cells in the tumor revealed a very high frequency of AH1+ cells, the tumor-associated antigen given off by dying tumors, in 30% to 70% of the treated mice as compared to 2% to 3% in the control mice. We believe these data suggest that treating the mice with FPI-1792 in combination with checkpoint inhibitors can break T cell tolerance and elicit a strong CD8+ T cell-mediated immune response that is able to reject tumors when re-challenged.
T Cell Recruitment and Antigen-Specific CD8+ T Cells in Tumors 14 Days after Tumor Re-Challenge
Overview of Combination with DDRis
We are also exploring the potential of combining FPI-1434 with DDRis such as PARP inhibitors. PARP is part of several cellular mechanisms that repair DNA damage, including single-stranded and double-stranded DNA breaks. In cancer patients with pre-existing genetic defects in double-stranded DNA break repair, such as BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations in ovarian or breast cancer, the PARP pathway becomes a primary DNA repair system. In such patients, PARP inhibitors result in blockage of DNA repair, which causes cell death. Approved PARP inhibitors include olaparib, talazoparib and niraparib. We believe that using FPI-1434 in combination with a PARP inhibitor to inhibit repair of alpha particle mediated DNA damage may work synergistically to increase the lethal DNA damage load on treated tumors and potentially improve the tolerability profile. In addition, the combination has the potential to expand the current patient population addressed by PARP inhibitors, which generally require the presence of a specific mutation such as BRCA1 or BRCA2, to include patients without pre-existing mutations. We are conducting additional preclinical studies of FPI-1434 in combination with DDRis, such as approved PARP inhibitors, to further assess the anti-tumor activity, dosing schedule and pharmacodynamics of the combinations. We plan to use the data gathered from these studies to support the initiation of a Phase 1 clinical trial of FPI-1434 in combination with approved PARP inhibitors. We expect to initiate a Phase 1 clinical trial for this combination approximately six to nine months after identifying the recommended Phase 2 dose for our ongoing monotherapy Phase 1 clinical trial of FPI-1434.
Preclinical PARP Inhibitor Combination Studies
In multiple preclinical studies, we have evaluated potential synergies between FPI-1434 and olaparib using preclinical tumor models with no pre-existing mutations in DNA repair and have observed that olaparib in combination with FPI-1434 can provide benefits where DNA damage is being generated directly by FPI-1434.
In one study, we evaluated nontherapeutic doses of 37 kBq/kg of FPI-1434 and 25 mg/kg of olaparib in a preclinical colorectal tumor model (n=5 in each dose group or vehicle group). A single dose of FPI-1434 was administered on day zero and olaparib was dosed on days 1 and 2 and thereafter on a five days on, two days off cycle for the remainder of the 30-day treatment period. Despite the non-therapeutic doses of each therapy used, the combination of the two nontherapeutic doses had a strong synergistic effect and inhibited tumor growth during the 47-day study period. We observed that olaparib in combination with FPI-1434 can provide additional therapeutic benefits where DNA damage is being generated directly by FPI-1434, even in the absence of a pre-existing mutation.
Relative Tumor Volume in Colorectal Mouse Model
Similar results were seen in a non-small cell lung cancer model, suggesting that the mechanism can be applied to multiple tumor types where mutations in DNA repair are absent. In both models, we observed that the strongest combination effect appeared to occur at the lower single agent doses, supporting our hypothesis that the addition of PARP inhibition may allow for efficacy at lower doses of FPI-1434. We believe that these data support the evaluation of a PARP inhibitor plus FPI-1434 combination therapy in the clinical setting.
Overview of FPI-1966 and Earlier-Stage Pipeline
In addition to FPI-1434, we are leveraging our TAT platform to progress our earlier-stage product candidates, including FPI-1966, into preclinical development. We designed FPI-1966 to target and deliver 225Ac to tumor sites expressing FGFR3, or fibroblast growth factor receptor 3, a protein that is overexpressed in head and neck and bladder cancers. FPI-1966 utilizes our Fast-Clear linker to connect a human monoclonal antibody that targets FGFR3 with 225Ac. We acquired the rights to vofatamab from Rainier Therapeutics, Inc. (f/k/a BioClin Therapeutics, Inc.), or Rainier, who had licensed the molecule from Genentech. Rainier had previously evaluated vofatamab as a therapeutic agent in a Phase 1b/2 trial in combination with pembrolizumab, an immune checkpoint inhibitor, to determine safety, tolerability and preliminary efficacy in the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic bladder cancer. Although the antibody was observed to be well-tolerated, it failed to demonstrate sufficient positive therapeutic efficacy to warrant further development. Because we are
utilizing the antibody only as a way to identify and deliver the 225Ac payload into the tumor and the mechanism of action of FPI-1966 has been observed in our preclinical studies not to depend on the FGFR3 signaling pathway to kill the tumor, we do not believe that the lack of sufficient efficacy observed for the antibody itself in previous trials will impact the potential anti-tumor activity of FPI-1966.
Subject to the submission of an IND and authorization to proceed from the FDA, we expect to submit an IND for FPI-1966 in the second quarter of 2021. To further expand our pipeline, we have in-licensed, and are continuing to in-license, additional targeting molecules for the development of TATs that are in various stages of discovery and preclinical development.
Relationship with CPDC
We were founded in 2014 to advance certain intellectual property relating to radiopharmaceuticals that had been developed by CPDC. We believe CPDC is a recognized leader in the field of radiopharmaceutical manufacturing. CPDC has funded status as a Centre of Excellence for Commercialization Research under the Canadian federal government’s Centres of Excellence for Commercialization and Research (CECR) program.
Following the time of our incorporation, some of our non-voting common shares were allocated to certain CPDC employees. We are also party to a Master Services Agreement and Supply Agreement with CPDC, pursuant to which CPDC provides products and services to us, including preclinical and manufacturing services, administrative support services, access to laboratory facilities and laboratory technicians and products for human safety and efficacy clinical trials. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.”
Manufacturing and Supply
We currently do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities.
For clinical supply, we use third-party contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, who comply with the FDA’s current good manufacturing practices, or cGMP, for the manufacture of our drug substance, in particular, our targeting antibodies. We currently produce our proprietary Fast-Clear linkers in house. However, prior to registrational clinical trials, we plan to transition the manufacturing of our Fast-Clear linkers to a CMO. Currently, we contract with the DoE and TRIUMF to supply us with 225Ac and are exploring other potential sources for 225Ac. We currently rely on the CPDC to receive the components of our TATs and to assemble and manufacture the finished TATs pursuant to a Master Services Agreement. CPDC then delivers the finished product candidates to global clinical sites, including those in Canada, the United States and Australia. We have contracted with Cardinal Health as an additional manufacturer of our TAT product candidates. Although we may ultimately establish our own drug product manufacturing facility, we expect to rely on third parties for our manufacturing processes and the production of all clinical supply in the near term.
Competition
The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are characterized by the rapid evolution of technologies and understanding of disease etiology, intense competition and a strong emphasis on intellectual property. We face substantial potential competition from many different sources, including major pharmaceutical, specialty pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic research institutions and governmental agencies and public and private research institutions.
In addition to the current standard of care for patients, commercial and academic clinical trials are being pursued by a number of parties in the field of radiopharmaceuticals. Early results from these trials have fueled continued interest in radiopharmaceuticals, which is being pursued by several biotechnology companies as well as by large pharmaceutical companies.
We consider our most direct competitors to be companies developing targeted alpha radiopharmaceuticals for the treatment of cancer. There are several companies developing targeted alpha-based radiopharmaceuticals for the treatment of cancer, including Bayer AG, or Bayer, Novartis AG, or Novartis, Actinium Pharmaceuticals, Inc., RadioMedix, Inc, Orano Med, Telix Pharmaceuticals Limited and POINT Biopharma Inc. as well as several early-stage companies who recently entered the field such as RayzeBio, Inc. These companies are targeting a wide range of solid and hematologic malignancies using various alpha emitting isotopes, including Radium-223, Actinium-225 and Thorium-227. The first and only approved alpha particle-based therapy is Bayer’s Xofigo, a salt of radium that cannot easily and robustly be attached to a targeting
molecule, but naturally localizes to regions where cancer cells are infiltrating bone. Xofigo was approved in the United States by the FDA in 2013 for the treatment of bone metastases associated with prostate cancer.
There are several companies with approved beta-based radiopharmaceuticals, including Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Novartis, Bayer and Q BioMed Inc. The beta emitting isotopes used by these companies include Iodine-131, Lutetium-177, Strontium-89 and Yttrium-90. A recently approved beta particle-based radiopharmaceutical is Novartis’ Lutathera, which was approved in 2018 for the treatment of patients with somatostatin receptor-positive gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine cancers. There are other beta particle-based radiopharmaceuticals in various stages of clinical development by companies including Novartis AG, Ipsen S.A., Y-mAbs Therapeutics, Inc. and Clovis Oncology, Inc.
Many of our current or potential competitors, either alone or with their collaboration partners, have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Mergers and acquisitions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries may result in even more resources being concentrated among a smaller number of our competitors. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These competitors also compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel and establishing clinical trial sites and patient enrollment in clinical trials, as well as in acquiring technologies and materials complementary to, or necessary for, our programs.
We could see a reduction or elimination in our commercial opportunity if our competitors develop and commercialize drugs that are safer, more effective, have fewer or less severe side effects, are more convenient to administer, are less expensive or with a more favorable label than our product candidates. Our competitors also may obtain FDA or other regulatory approval for their drugs more rapidly than we may obtain approval for ours, which could result in our competitors establishing a strong market position before we are able to enter the market. The key competitive factors affecting the success of all of our product candidates, if approved, are likely to be their efficacy, safety, convenience, price, the effectiveness of imaging diagnostics, the level of generic competition and the availability of reimbursement from government and other third-party payors.
Intellectual Property
Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property protection for our platform technology, product candidates and know-how, to defend and enforce our intellectual property rights, in particular, our patent rights, to preserve the confidentiality of our know-how and trade secrets and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We seek to protect our product candidates and technologies by, among other methods, filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovation and in-licensing of third-party intellectual property to develop and maintain our proprietary position. We, or our collaborators and licensors, file patent applications directed to our key product candidates in an effort to establish intellectual property positions to protect our product candidates as well as uses of our product candidates for the prevention and/or treatment of diseases.
As of March 15, 2021, our patent estate that we own and in-licensed includes over five issued U.S. patents, over five pending U.S. patent applications, over 20 issued foreign patents, over 65 pending foreign patent applications and five pending international Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, applications.
Fast-Clear Linker Technology
We in-license a patent family with composition of matter and method claims directed to radioimmunoconjugates comprising chelating moieties, linkers and targeting moieties, including antibodies. Patent applications are pending in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions and regions including Australia, Canada, China, Eurasia, Europe, Israel, India, Japan, Singapore, and South Africa. Patent applications in this family, if issued, are expected to expire in May 2038, without taking potential patent term extensions into account.
Specific Product Candidates
We in-license a patent family with composition of matter and methods of use claims covering FPI-1434 and its use, with patent applications pending in the United States, and various other foreign jurisdictions and regions including Australia, Canada, China, Eurasia, Europe, Israel, India, Japan, Singapore and South Africa. Patent applications in this family, if issued, are expected to expire in May 2038, without taking potential patent term extensions into account.
We also in-license an issued U.S. patent with composition of matter and methods of use claims covering FPI-1434 and its use, which is expected to expire in August 2037, without taking potential patent term extensions into account.
Specific Targeting Molecules
We in-license a patent family with composition of matter and methods of use claims directed to radioimmunoconjugates comprising IGF-1R specific antibodies and their use, with patent applications pending in the United States and various other foreign jurisdictions and regions including Australia, Canada, China, Eurasia, Europe, Israel, India, Japan, Singapore, and South Africa. Patent applications in this family, if issued, are expected to expire in May 2038, without taking potential patent term extensions into account.
We in-licensed a patent family with composition of matter and methods of use claims directed to FGFR3 specific antibodies, which includes five issued U.S. patents, one pending U.S. patent application, over 20 granted foreign patents in various jurisdictions, including Australia, Canada, China, Europe, Israel, India, Japan, Mexico, Russia and South Africa, and over five pending foreign patent applications in various jurisdictions, including Europe, Thailand and Vietnam. Patents and patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire 2030, without taking potential patent terms extensions into account.
Combination Therapies
We own two pending international or PCT patent applications and two pending U.S. patent applications with method claims directed to our radioimmunoconjugates in combination with DNA damage repair inhibitors and checkpoint inhibitors. The U.S. patent applications, or patent applications claiming the benefit of the two PCT patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire in 2039, without taking potential patent terms extensions into account.
We own a patent family with method claims directed to administering an FGFR3 inhibitor in combination with a PD1 inhibitor with a pending U.S. patent application and over 12 pending foreign patent applications in various jurisdictions and regions including Australia, Canada, China, Europe, Israel, India, Japan, Korea and Singapore. Patent applications, if issued, are expected to expire in 2036, without taking potential patent terms extensions into account.
We own a patent family with method claims directed to administering an FGFR3 inhibitor in combination with a checkpoint inhibitor, which includes a pending U.S. patent application and a pending international or PCT application. The U.S. patent application or patent applications claiming the benefit of the PCT application, if issued, are expected to expire in 2040, without taking potential patent terms extensions into account.
We own a patent family with method claims directed to treating cancer cell proliferation with our radioimmunoconjugates, which includes a pending international or PCT application, and patent applications pending in Taiwan and Argentina. Patent applications or patent applications claiming the benefit of the PCT application, if issued, are expected to expire in 2041, without taking potential patent terms extensions into account.
Novel Chelates
We own a patent family with composition of matter and method claims directed to our radioimmunoconjugates comprising hydroxypyridone (HOPO) chelates, which includes a pending international or PCT application and patent applications pending in Taiwan and Argentina. Patent applications or patent applications claiming the benefit of the PCT application, if issued, are expected to expire in 2041, without taking potential patent terms extensions into account.
Collaboration and License Agreements
AstraZeneca Collaboration Agreement
In October 2020, we and AstraZeneca entered into a strategic collaboration agreement, or the AstraZeneca Agreement, pursuant to which we and AstraZeneca will jointly discover, develop and commercialize next-generation alpha-emitting radiopharmaceuticals and combination therapies for the treatment of cancer globally by leveraging our TATs platform and expertise in radiopharmaceuticals with AstraZeneca’s leading portfolio of antibodies and cancer therapeutics, including DDRis. Each party retains full ownership over its existing assets.
For the novel TATs, the parties will utilize our Fast-Clear linker technology to bind the alpha-emitting isotope Actinium-225 to certain antibodies in AstraZeneca’s oncology portfolio. Under the AstraZeneca Agreement, the parties may
develop up to three novel TATs. We will take the operational lead on preclinical development and clinical studies aimed at establishing safety for the novel TATs, referred to as the Stage 1 Development, while AstraZeneca will be responsible for subsequent clinical development, referred to as the Stage 2 Development. We and AstraZeneca will share development costs equally (with each party responsible for the cost of its own supply in connection with such development). Either party has the right to opt out of the co-development and co-commercialization arrangement at pre-determined timepoints and obtain exclusive rights to a novel TAT in exchange for milestone payments to the other party of up to $145.0 million per novel TAT and a low or high single-digit royalties on future sales (depending on the opt out time point). If neither party opts out, and unless otherwise agreed by the parties, AstraZeneca will lead worldwide commercialization activities for the novel TATs, subject to our option to co-promote the TATs in the U.S. All profits and losses resulting from such commercialization activities will be shared equally.
For the combination therapies, the parties will evaluate up to five potential combination strategies involving our existing assets, including FPI-1434, in combination with certain of AstraZeneca’s existing therapeutics for the treatment of various cancers. AstraZeneca will fully fund all research and development activities for the combination strategies, until such point as we may opt-in to the clinical development activities. We have the right to opt-out of clinical development activities relating to these combination therapies. In such instance, we will be responsible for repaying its share of the development costs via a royalty on the additional combination sales only if its drug is approved on the basis of clinical development solely conducted by AstraZeneca, in which case the royalty payments shall also include a variable risk premium based on the number of our product candidates to have received regulatory approval at that time. Each party will have the sole right, on a country-by-country basis, to commercialize its respective contributed compound as a component of any combination therapy for which such party’s contributed compound may be commercialized under a separate marketing authorization from the other party’s contributed compound to such combination therapy. The parties will negotiate in good faith on a combination therapy-by-combination therapy basis the terms and conditions to co-commercialize any combination therapy that is to be commercialized under a single marketing authorization. During the period of time commencing with the inclusion of an available molecular target in the selection pool for development as a combination therapy and ending upon the end of the nomination period or earlier removal of such combination target from such pool, we will not undertake any preclinical or clinical studies combining our TAT Platform with any compound modulating the activity of such combination target. Following selection of a target under the AstraZeneca Agreement and payment of an exclusivity fee by AstraZeneca, and provided that AstraZeneca enrolls its first patient in a clinical trial as further defined in the AstraZeneca Agreement within a pre-defined period of time of such selection, we will not undertake any preclinical or clinical studies combining our TAT Platform with compounds modulating the same combination target for the duration of the evaluation period for such combination target, as further defined in the AstraZeneca Agreement. Within a certain time period following initiation of the evaluation period with respect to a combination target, AstraZeneca has the exclusive right to undertake, alone or in collaboration with us, all further clinical or preclinical combination studies with respect to a combination target by paying certain exclusivity fees.
We received an upfront payment of $5.0 million from AstraZeneca. In addition, we are eligible to receive future payments of up to $40.0 million, including clinical milestones. The AstraZeneca Agreement expires on a TAT-by-TAT and combination-by-combination basis upon the later of the expiration of development and exclusivity obligations relating to such TAT or combination or, if such TAT or combination is commercialized as a product under the AstraZeneca Agreement, the expiration of the commercial life of such product. We and AstraZeneca can each terminate the AstraZeneca Agreement for the other party’s uncured material breach following the applicable notice period. Each of us and AstraZeneca may also terminate the AstraZeneca Agreement with respect to any TAT or combination product if such party determines that the continued development of such TAT or combination product is not commercially viable, or for a material safety issue with respect to such TAT or combination product.
License Agreement with the Centre for Probe Development and Commercialization
In February 2017, we entered into a license agreement with the CPDC, or the CPDC License Agreement, pursuant to which we acquired a worldwide, exclusive license to (i) all of CPDC’s patents and patent applications throughout the world covering or relating to the technology owned or licensable by CPDC relating to its IGF-1R program and the associated novel linker technology, which we refer to as the CPDC Technology and (ii) all of CPDC’s technical information related to the CPDC Technology, including the right to sublicense any or all such rights to the CPDC Technology.
As consideration for the license, we paid CPDC a nominal fee. We are not required to pay CPDC any royalties or milestones for the use of the CPDC Technology.
The CPDC License Agreement will remain in effect until terminated. Either party may terminate the CPDC License Agreement in the event that the other party is in default of any of its obligation under the CPDC License Agreement and such default is not remedied within 60 days of receiving notice of such default.
License Agreement with ImmunoGen, Inc.
In December 2016, we entered into a license agreement with ImmunoGen, or the ImmunoGen License Agreement. Pursuant to the ImmunoGen License Agreement, we acquired a worldwide, exclusive, sublicensable royalty-bearing license to use, develop, manufacture, commercialize and otherwise exploit any radiopharmaceutical conjugate that includes or incorporates ImmunoGen’s monoclonal antibody that targets IGF-1R and the related amino acid sequence, and any antibody derived therefrom, including the naked antibody we utilize in FPI-1434, which we refer to as the ImmunoGen Product, for the treatment, prevention, diagnosis, control and maintenance of all diseases and disorders.
Pursuant to the ImmunoGen License Agreement, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and seek regulatory approval for the ImmunoGen Product in the United States and in at least one of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain or the United Kingdom. If regulatory approval is obtained, we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to commercialize the ImmunoGen Product in each country where the regulatory approval is obtained. We will be solely responsible for the costs associated with development, manufacturing, regulatory approval and commercialization of any products.
After completion of any Phase 2 clinical trial of any product covered by the ImmunoGen License Agreement and upon the first to occur of (i) our undertaking of good faith efforts to identify potential licensees or collaborators to develop and commercialize any product covered by the ImmunoGen License Agreement or (ii) the delivery of data with respect to such Phase 2 clinical trial, ImmunoGen will have an exclusive right of first negotiation to obtain rights to develop or commercialize the product in North America, provided that neither party shall have the obligation to enter into such a license. If ImmunoGen does not exercise its option during the specified period, then we have the right to license the product for development or commercialization in North America to a third party. If ImmunoGen exercises its option, but we do not enter into any such license agreement, ImmunoGen’s right of first negotiation expires.
As initial consideration for the license, we paid ImmunoGen an upfront fee of $0.2 million. In addition, we will be required to pay ImmunoGen up to an aggregate of $15.0 million in specified development and regulatory milestones and up to $35.0 million in specified sales milestones. We are also obligated to pay ImmunoGen tiered, low to mid single-digit royalties of total worldwide sales of the ImmunoGen Product on a country-by-country basis. For product sales in the U.S., the royalty term will run for 10 years following the first commercial sale and, for product sales outside the U.S., the royalty term will run for five years following the first sale.
Unless earlier terminated, the ImmunoGen License Agreement will expire at the end of the last royalty period described above. Either party may terminate for the uncured breach by the other party and upon the other party filing for bankruptcy, reorganization, liquidation or receivership proceedings. In addition, until we receive regulatory approval of any product utilizing the ImmunoGen Product, we may terminate the agreement at any time upon 90 days’ prior written notice. Following receipt of regulatory approval, we may terminate the agreement at any time upon 180 days’ prior written notice to ImmunoGen.
Rainier Asset Purchase Agreement and Genentech License Agreement
Pursuant to the terms of the asset purchase agreement we entered into on March 10, 2020 with Rainier, or the Rainier Asset Purchase Agreement, we acquired substantially all the assets of Rainier in consideration for an upfront cash payment of $1.0 million, which was paid at the closing, or the Closing. Unless terminated pursuant to the terms of the Rainier Asset Purchase Agreement, which termination may not occur later than eight months following the Closing, or the Outside Date, we are obligated to pay Rainier an additional amount equal to $3.5 million and issue an aggregate of 313,359 of our common shares. If the Rainier Asset Purchase Agreement is not terminated by the Outside Date, we will be obligated to make aggregate payments to Rainier of up to $22.5 million and issue up to 156,679 of our non-voting common shares upon the achievement of specified development and regulatory milestones and of up to $42.0 million upon the achievement of specified sales milestones.
In the event we enter into a transaction with a non-affiliated party relating to the license or sale of substantially all our rights to develop vofatamab as a naked antibody, we will be required to pay Rainier a portion of the revenue from such transaction, in an amount ranging from 10% to 30%, based on how long after the Closing the transaction takes place.
The Rainier Asset Purchase Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Outside Date upon 30 days’ notice by us to Rainier or upon the mutual written consent of both parties. If the agreement is terminated prior to the Outside Date, our future payment obligations become void and we will cease to have any rights to the antibody or the Genentech License Agreement (as defined below). On October 8, 2020, we entered into a first amendment to the Rainier Agreement (the “Amended Rainier Agreement”) to extend certain terms of the Rainier Agreement. Specifically, the Outside Date, was amended such that termination may not occur later than eleven months following the Closing, or February 10, 2021 (the “Revised Outside Date”). On February 8, 2021, we entered into a second amendment to the Amended Rainier Agreement, as amended pursuant to which the Outside Date was amended such that termination may not occur later than July 1, 2021 in consideration for early payment of the additional $3.5 million owed to Rainier. We remain obligated to issue an aggregate of 313,359 of our common shares to Rainier under the Amended Rainier Agreement, as amended.
In connection with the Rainier Asset Purchase Agreement, in March 2020, we were assigned all of Rainier’s rights and obligations under an exclusive license agreement, dated December 26, 2012, between BioClin Therapeutics, Inc. and Genentech, Inc., or the Genentech License Agreement. Pursuant to the Genentech License Agreement, we have an exclusive, worldwide, sublicensable license to make, use, research, develop, sell and import certain intellectual property and technology of Genentech relating to vofatamab, an antibody targeted to FGFR3, and a mutant antibody thereof, or the Licensed Antibodies, including any products that contain a Licensed Antibody as an active ingredient, or Products.
Pursuant to the Genentech License Agreement, we are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and commercialize at least one Product and we are solely responsible for the costs associated with the development, manufacturing, regulatory approval and commercialization of any Products. The manufacture of the antibody by any third-party CMO must be approved in advance by Genentech. Additionally, Genentech retains the right to use the Licensed Antibodies solely to research and develop molecules other than the Licensed Antibodies.
We are required to pay Genentech milestone payments of up to $44.0 million upon the achievement of specified sales milestones.
We are obligated to pay Genentech tiered royalties ranging from a mid single-digit percentage to a high single-digit percentage on worldwide net sales of Products containing the antibody (rather than the mutant antibody), and tiered royalties of a different mid to high single-digit range on worldwide net sales of Products containing the mutant antibody. For Products that are not covered by an enforceable patent in the country in which they are sold, we are obligated to pay a low single-digit royalty on sales in such country until the end of the royalty term. The royalty payments may be subject to deductions in the event we obtain a license under a third-party patent that covers the Licensed Antibody contained in the Product.
Our obligation to pay royalties begins on the date of first commercial sale of a Product and expires upon the later of 10 years or the date the Product is no longer covered by an enforceable patent.
Unless earlier terminated, the Genentech License Agreement will expire upon the expiration of all royalty and milestone payment obligations. Either party may terminate the Genentech License Agreement as follows: (i) if the other party is in material breach and such breach is not cured within 90 days of receiving notice thereof or (ii) in the event of specified insolvency events involving the other party. In addition, we may terminate the Genentech License Agreement for convenience upon 60 days’ prior written notice if we determine in our sole discretion that development or commercialization of Products is not economically or scientifically feasible or appropriate.
Government Regulation
Government authorities in the United States at the federal, state and local level and in other countries regulate, among other things, the research, development, testing, manufacture, quality control, approval, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, promotion, advertising, distribution, post-approval monitoring and reporting, marketing and export and import of drug and biological products, such as those developed from our Fast-Clear linker technology and any other product candidates we develop. Generally, before a new drug or biologic can be marketed, considerable data demonstrating its quality, safety and efficacy must be obtained, organized into a format specific for each regulatory authority, submitted for review and approved by the regulatory authority.
U.S. Drug and Biological Product Development
In the United States, the FDA regulates drugs under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA, and its implementing regulations and biologics under the FDCA, the Public Health Service Act, or the PHSA, and their
implementing regulations. Both drugs and biologics also are subject to other federal, state and local statutes and regulations. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals and the subsequent compliance with appropriate federal, state and local statutes and regulations requires the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. Failure to comply with the applicable U.S. requirements at any time during the product development process, approval process or post-market may subject an applicant to administrative or judicial sanctions. These sanctions could include, among other actions, the FDA’s refusal to approve pending applications, withdrawal of an approval, license revocation, a clinical hold, untitled or warning letters, product recalls or market withdrawals, product seizures, total or partial suspension of production or distribution, injunctions, fines, refusals of government contracts, restitution, disgorgement and civil or criminal penalties. Any agency or judicial enforcement action could have a material adverse effect on us.
Our product candidates and any future product candidates we develop must be approved by the FDA through either a new drug application, or NDA, or a biologics license application, or BLA, process before they may be legally marketed in the United States. An NDA or BLA is a request for approval to market a drug or biologic, respectively, for one or more specified indications. NDAs must contain data sufficient for the agency to determine the drug is safe and effective, and BLAs must contain data sufficient to demonstrate the safety, purity, and potency of the biologic. The FDA review and approval process generally involves the following:
•
completion of extensive preclinical studies in accordance with applicable regulations, including studies conducted in accordance with GLP requirements;
•
submission to the FDA of an IND, which must become effective before human clinical trials may begin;
•
approval by an Institutional Review Board, or IRB, or independent ethics committee at each clinical trial site before each trial may be initiated;
•
performance of adequate and well-controlled human clinical trials in accordance with applicable IND regulations, good clinical practice, or GCP, requirements and other clinical trial-related regulations to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational product for each proposed indication;
•
submission to the FDA of an NDA or BLA;
•
a determination by the FDA within 60 days of its receipt of an NDA or BLA to accept the filing for review;
•
satisfactory completion of an FDA pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities where the drug or biologic will be produced to assess compliance with cGMP requirements to assure that the facilities, methods and controls are adequate to preserve the drug or biologic’s identity, strength, quality and purity;
•
potential FDA audit of the clinical trial sites that generated the data in support of the NDA or BLA; and
•
FDA review and approval of the NDA or BLA, including consideration of the views of any FDA advisory committee, prior to any commercial marketing or sale of the drug or biologic in the United States.
The preclinical and clinical testing and approval process requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and we cannot be certain that any approvals for our product candidates will be granted on a timely basis, or at all.
Preclinical Studies and IND
Preclinical studies include laboratory evaluation of product chemistry and formulation, as well as in vitro and animal studies to assess the potential for adverse events and in some cases to establish a rationale for therapeutic use. The conduct of preclinical studies is subject to federal regulations and requirements, including GLP regulations for safety/toxicology studies.
An IND sponsor must submit the results of the preclinical studies, together with manufacturing information, analytical data, any available clinical data or literature and plans for clinical trials, among other things, to the FDA as part of an IND. An IND is a request for authorization from the FDA to administer an investigational product to humans, and must become effective before human clinical trials may begin. Some long-term preclinical testing may continue after the IND is submitted. An IND automatically becomes effective 30 days after receipt by the FDA, unless before that time, the FDA raises concerns or questions related to one or more proposed clinical trials and places the trial on clinical hold. In such a case, the IND sponsor and the FDA must resolve any outstanding concerns before the clinical trial can begin. As a result, submission of an IND may not result in the FDA allowing clinical trials to commence.
Clinical Trials
The clinical stage of development involves the administration of the investigational product to healthy volunteers or patients under the supervision of qualified investigators, generally physicians not employed by or under the trial sponsor’s control, in accordance with GCP requirements, which include the requirement that all research subjects provide their informed consent for their participation in any clinical trial. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the clinical trial, dosing procedures, subject selection and exclusion criteria and the parameters to be used to monitor subject safety and assess efficacy. Each protocol, and any subsequent amendments to the protocol, must be submitted to the FDA as part of the IND. Further, each clinical trial must be reviewed and approved by an IRB for each institution at which the clinical trial will be conducted to ensure that the risks to individuals participating in the clinical trials are minimized and are reasonable in relation to anticipated benefits. The IRB also approves the informed consent form that must be provided to each clinical trial subject or his or her legal representative, and must monitor the clinical trial until completed. There also are requirements governing the reporting of ongoing clinical trials and completed clinical trial results to public registries.
A sponsor who wishes to conduct a clinical trial outside of the United States may, but need not, obtain FDA authorization to conduct the clinical trial under an IND. If a foreign clinical trial is not conducted under an IND, the sponsor may submit data from the clinical trial to the FDA in support of an NDA or BLA. The FDA will accept a well-designed and well-conducted foreign clinical trial not conducted under an IND if the study was conducted in accordance with GCP requirements, and the FDA is able to validate the data through an onsite inspection if deemed necessary.
Clinical trials generally are conducted in three sequential phases, known as Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3, and may overlap or be combined.
•
Phase 1 clinical trials generally involve a small number of healthy volunteers or disease-affected patients who are initially exposed to a single dose and then multiple doses of the product candidate. The primary purpose of these clinical trials is to assess the metabolism, pharmacologic action, side effect tolerability and safety of the product candidate.
•
Phase 2 clinical trials involve studies in disease-affected patients to determine the dose required to produce the desired benefits. At the same time, safety and further pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic information is collected, possible adverse effects and safety risks are identified and a preliminary evaluation of efficacy is conducted.
•
Phase 3 clinical trials generally involve a large number of patients at multiple sites and are designed to provide the data necessary to demonstrate the effectiveness of the product for its intended use, its safety in use and to establish the overall benefit/risk relationship of the product and provide an adequate basis for product labeling.
Post-approval trials, sometimes referred to as Phase 4 clinical trials, may be conducted after initial marketing approval. These trials are used to gain additional experience from the treatment of patients in the intended therapeutic indication. In certain instances, the FDA may mandate the performance of Phase 4 clinical trials as a condition of approval of an NDA or BLA.
Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials, among other information, must be submitted at least annually to the FDA and written IND safety reports must be submitted to the FDA and the investigators 15 days after the trial sponsor determines the information qualifies for reporting for serious and unexpected suspected adverse events, findings from other studies or animal or in vitro testing that suggest a significant risk for human subjects and any clinically important increase in the rate of a serious suspected adverse reaction over that listed in the protocol or investigator brochure. The sponsor must also notify the FDA of any unexpected fatal or life-threatening suspected adverse reaction as soon as possible but in no case later than seven calendar days after the sponsor’s initial receipt of the information.
Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, if at all. The FDA or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects or patients are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an IRB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the IRB’s requirements or if the drug or biologic has been associated with unexpected serious harm to patients. Additionally, some clinical trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical trial sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group provides authorization for whether a trial may move forward at designated check points based on access to certain data from the trial. Concurrent with clinical trials, companies usually complete additional animal studies and also must develop additional information about the chemistry and physical
characteristics of the drug or biologic as well as finalize a process for manufacturing the product in commercial quantities in accordance with cGMP requirements. The manufacturing process must be capable of consistently producing quality batches of the product and, among other things, companies must develop methods for testing the identity, strength, quality and purity of the final product. Additionally, appropriate packaging must be selected and tested and stability studies must be conducted to demonstrate that the product candidates do not undergo unacceptable deterioration over their shelf life.
FDA Review Process
Following completion of the clinical trials, data are analyzed to assess whether the investigational product is, among other things, safe and effective for its intended use. The results of preclinical studies and clinical trials are then submitted to the FDA as part of an NDA or BLA, along with proposed labeling, chemistry and manufacturing information to ensure product quality and other relevant data. The NDA or BLA may include both negative and ambiguous results of preclinical studies and clinical trials, as well as positive findings. Data may come from company-sponsored clinical trials intended to test the safety and efficacy of a product’s use or from a number of alternative sources, including studies initiated by investigators. To support marketing approval, the data submitted must be sufficient in quality and quantity to establish the safety and efficacy of the investigational product to the satisfaction of FDA. FDA approval of an NDA or BLA must be obtained before a drug or biologic may be marketed in the United States.
Under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, or PDUFA, as amended, each NDA or BLA must be accompanied by a user fee. The FDA adjusts the PDUFA user fees on an annual basis. Fee waivers or reductions are available in certain circumstances, including a waiver of the application fee for the first application filed by a small business. Additionally, no user fees are assessed on NDAs or BLAs for products designated as orphan drugs, unless the product also includes a non-orphan indication.
The FDA reviews all submitted NDAs and BLAs before it accepts them for filing, and may request additional information rather than accepting the NDA or BLA for filing. The FDA decides whether to accept an NDA or BLA for filing within 60 days of receipt, and such decision could include a refusal to file by the FDA. Once the submission is accepted for filing, the FDA begins an in-depth review of the NDA or BLA. Under the goals and policies agreed to by the FDA under PDUFA, the FDA has 10 months, from the filing date, in which to complete its initial review of a new molecular entity NDA or original BLA and respond to the applicant, and six months from the filing date of a new molecular entity NDA or original BLA designated for priority review. The FDA does not always meet its PDUFA goal dates for standard and priority NDAs or BLAs, and the review process is often extended by FDA requests for additional information or clarification.
Before approving an NDA or BLA, the FDA will conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facilities for the new product to determine whether they comply with cGMP requirements. The FDA will not approve the product unless it determines that the manufacturing processes and facilities are in compliance with cGMP requirements and adequate to assure consistent production of the product within required specifications. The FDA also may audit data from clinical trials to ensure compliance with GCP requirements. Additionally, the FDA may refer applications for novel products or products which present difficult questions of safety or efficacy to an advisory committee, typically a panel that includes clinicians and other experts, for review, evaluation and a recommendation as to whether the application should be approved and under what conditions, if any. The FDA is not bound by recommendations of an advisory committee, but it considers such recommendations when making decisions on approval. The FDA likely will reanalyze the clinical trial data, which could result in extensive discussions between the FDA and the applicant during the review process. After the FDA evaluates an NDA or BLA, it will issue an approval letter or a Complete Response Letter. An approval letter authorizes commercial marketing of the drug or biologic with specific prescribing information for specific indications. A Complete Response Letter indicates that the review cycle of the application is complete and the application will not be approved in its present form. A Complete Response Letter usually describes all of the specific deficiencies in the NDA or BLA identified by the FDA. The Complete Response Letter may require additional clinical data, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial(s) as well as other significant and time-consuming requirements related to clinical trials, preclinical studies or manufacturing. If a Complete Response Letter is issued, the applicant may either resubmit the NDA or BLA, addressing all of the deficiencies identified in the letter, or withdraw the application. The FDA may delay or refuse approval of an NDA or BLA if applicable regulatory criteria are not satisfied, require additional testing or information and/or require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor safety or efficacy of a product.
Orphan Drug Designation
Under the Orphan Drug Act, the FDA may grant orphan designation to a drug or biological product intended to treat a rare disease or condition, which is generally a disease or condition that affects fewer than 200,000 individuals in the United
States, or more than 200,000 individuals in the United States and for which there is no reasonable expectation that the cost of developing and making the product available in the United States for this type of disease or condition will be recovered from sales of the product.
Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an NDA or BLA. After the FDA grants orphan drug designation, the identity of the therapeutic agent and its potential orphan use are disclosed publicly by the FDA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in or shorten the duration of the regulatory review and approval process.
If a product that has orphan drug designation subsequently receives the first FDA approval for the disease or condition for which it has such designation, the product is entitled to orphan drug exclusivity, which means that the FDA may not approve any other applications to market the same drug for the same indication for seven years from the date of such approval, except in limited circumstances, such as a showing of clinical superiority to the product with orphan exclusivity by means of greater effectiveness, greater safety or providing a major contribution to patient care or in instances of drug supply issues. Competitors, however, may receive approval of either a different product for the same indication or the same product for a different indication but that could be used off-label in the orphan indication. Orphan drug exclusivity also could block the approval of one of our products for seven years if a competitor obtains approval before we do for the same product, as defined by the FDA, for the same indication we are seeking approval, or if our product is determined to be contained within the scope of the competitor’s product for the same indication or disease. If one of our products designated as an orphan drug receives marketing approval for an indication broader than that which is designated, it may not be entitled to orphan drug exclusivity. Orphan drug status in the European Union has similar, but not identical, requirements and benefits.
Expedited Development and Review Programs
The FDA offers a number of expedited development and review programs for qualifying product candidates. The fast track program that is intended to expedite or facilitate the process for reviewing new drugs and biologics that meet certain criteria. Specifically, new drugs and biologics are eligible for fast track designation if they are intended to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and preclinical or clinical data demonstrate the potential to address unmet medical needs for the condition. Fast track designation applies to both the product and the specific indication for which it is being studied. The sponsor of a drug or biologic can request the FDA to designate the product for fast track status any time before receiving NDA or BLA approval, but ideally no later than the pre-NDA or pre-BLA meeting.
Any product submitted to the FDA for marketing, including under a fast track program, may be eligible for other types of FDA programs intended to expedite development and review, such as priority review and accelerated approval. Any product is eligible for priority review if it has the potential to provide a significant improvement in the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of a serious or life-threating disease or condition compared to available therapies. For original NDAs and BLAs, priority review designation means the FDA’s goal is to take action on the marketing application within six months of the 60-day filing date.
A product candidate may also be eligible for accelerated approval, if it treats a serious or life-threatening disease or condition and generally provides a meaningful advantage over available therapies. In addition, it must demonstrate an effect on a surrogate endpoint that is reasonably likely to predict clinical benefit or on a clinical endpoint that can be measured earlier than irreversible morbidity or mortality, or IMM, that is reasonably likely to predict an effect on IMM or other clinical benefit. As a condition of approval, the FDA generally requires that a sponsor of a drug or biologic receiving accelerated approval perform adequate and well-controlled post-marketing clinical trials. to verify and describe the anticipated effect on irreversible morbidity or mortality or other clinical benefit.
Additionally, a drug or biologic may be eligible for designation as a breakthrough therapy if the product is intended, alone or in combination with one or more other drugs or biologics, to treat a serious or life-threatening condition and preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the product may demonstrate substantial improvement over currently approved therapies on one or more clinically significant endpoints. The benefits of breakthrough therapy designation include the same benefits as fast track designation, as well as more intensive FDA interaction and guidance beginning as early as Phase 1 and an organizational commitment to expedite the development and review of the product, including involvement of senior managers.
Fast track designation, priority review, and breakthrough therapy designation do not change the standards for approval but may expedite the development or approval process. Even if a product qualifies for one or more of these programs, the FDA may later decide that the product no longer meets the conditions for qualification or decide that the time period for FDA review or approval will not be shortened.
Pediatric Information
Under the Pediatric Research Equity Act, or PREA, certain NDAs and BLAs and certain supplements to an NDA or BLA must contain data to assess the safety and efficacy of the drug or biologic for the claimed indications in all relevant pediatric subpopulations and to support dosing and administration for each pediatric subpopulation for which the product is safe and effective. The FDA may grant deferrals for submission of pediatric data or full or partial waivers. The Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act, or FDASIA, amended the FDCA to require that a sponsor who is planning to submit a marketing application for a drug that includes a new active ingredient, new indication, new dosage form, new dosing regimen or new route of administration submit an initial Pediatric Study Plan, or PSP, within 60 days of an end-of-Phase 2 meeting or, if there is no such meeting, as early as practicable before the initiation of the Phase 3 or Phase 2/3 study. The initial PSP must include an outline of the pediatric study or studies that the sponsor plans to conduct, including study objectives and design, age groups, relevant endpoints and statistical approach, or a justification for not including such detailed information, and any request for a deferral of pediatric assessments or a full or partial waiver of the requirement to provide data from pediatric studies along with supporting information. The FDA and the sponsor must reach an agreement on the PSP. A sponsor can submit amendments to an agreed-upon initial PSP at any time if changes to the pediatric plan need to be considered based on data collected from preclinical studies, early phase clinical trials as well as other clinical development programs.
Post-Marketing Requirements
Following approval of a new product, the manufacturer and the approved product are subject to continuing regulation by the FDA, including, among other things, monitoring and record-keeping activities, reporting of adverse experiences, product sampling and distribution, complying with promotion and advertising requirements, which include restrictions on promoting products for unapproved uses or patient populations (known as “off-label use”) and limitations on industry-sponsored scientific and educational activities. Although physicians may prescribe legally available products for off-label uses, manufacturers may not market or promote such uses. Prescription drug and biologic promotional materials must be submitted to the FDA in conjunction with their first use. Further, if there are any modifications to the drug or biologic, including changes in indications, labeling or manufacturing processes or facilities, the applicant may be required to submit and obtain FDA approval of a new NDA/BLA or NDA/BLA supplement, which may require the development of additional data or preclinical studies and clinical trials.
The FDA may also place other conditions on approvals including the requirement for a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, or REMS, to assure the safe use of the product. If the FDA concludes a REMS is needed, the sponsor of the NDA or BLA must submit a proposed REMS. The FDA will not approve the NDA or BLA without an approved REMS, if required. A REMS could include medication guides, physician communication plans or elements to assure safe use, such as restricted distribution methods, patient registries and other risk minimization tools. Any of these limitations on approval or marketing could restrict the commercial promotion, distribution, prescription or dispensing of products. Product approvals may be withdrawn for non-compliance with regulatory standards or if problems occur following initial marketing.
FDA regulations require that products be manufactured in specific facilities and in accordance with cGMP regulations. We rely, and expect to continue to rely, on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of our products in accordance with cGMP regulations. These manufacturers must comply with cGMP regulations that require, among other things, quality control and quality assurance, the maintenance of records and documentation and the obligation to investigate and correct any deviations from cGMP. Manufacturers and other entities involved in the manufacture and distribution of approved drugs or biologics are required to register their establishments with the FDA and certain state agencies, and are subject to periodic unannounced inspections by the FDA and certain state agencies for compliance with cGMP requirements and other laws. Accordingly, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to maintain cGMP compliance. The discovery of violations, including failure to conform to cGMP regulations, could result in enforcement actions, and the discovery of post-approval problems with a product may result in restrictions on a product, manufacturer or holder of an approved NDA or BLA, including recall.
The FDA may withdraw approval if compliance with regulatory requirements and standards is not maintained or if problems occur after the product reaches the market. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or with manufacturing processes, or failure to comply with regulatory requirements, may result in revisions to the approved labeling to add new safety information; imposition of post-market studies or clinical studies to assess new safety risks; or imposition of distribution restrictions or other restrictions under a REMS program. Other potential consequences include, among other things:
•
restrictions on the marketing or manufacturing of a product, complete withdrawal of the product from the market or product recalls;
•
fines, warning or untitled letters or holds on post-approval clinical studies;
•
refusal of the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications, or suspension or revocation of existing product approvals;
•
product seizure or detention, or refusal of the FDA to permit the import or export of products;
•
consent decrees, corporate integrity agreements, debarment or exclusion from federal healthcare programs;
•
mandated modification of promotional materials and labeling and the issuance of corrective information;
•
the issuance of safety alerts, Dear Healthcare Provider letters, press releases and other communications containing warnings or other safety information about the product; or
•
injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties.
Biosimilars and Exclusivity
An abbreviated approval pathway for biological products that are biosimilar to or interchangeable with an FDA-licensed reference biological product was created by the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009, or BPCIA, as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, or the Affordable Care Act. This amendment to the PHSA, in part, attempts to minimize duplicative testing.
Biosimilarity, which requires that the biological product be highly similar to the reference product notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components and that there be no clinically meaningful differences between the product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity and potency, can be shown through analytical studies, animal studies and a clinical trial or trials. Interchangeability requires that a biological product be biosimilar to the reference product and that the product can be expected to produce the same clinical results as the reference product in any given patient and, for products administered multiple times to an individual, that the product and the reference product may be alternated or switched after one has been previously administered without increasing safety risks or risks of diminished efficacy relative to exclusive use of the reference biological product without such alternation or switch. Complexities associated with the larger, and often more complex, structure of biological products as compared to small molecule drugs, as well as the processes by which such products are manufactured, pose significant hurdles to implementation that are still being worked out by the FDA.
A reference biological product is granted 12 years of data exclusivity from the time of first licensure of the product, and the FDA will not accept an application for a biosimilar or interchangeable product based on the reference biological product until four years after the date of first licensure of the reference product. “First licensure” typically means the initial date the particular product at issue was licensed in the United States. Date of first licensure does not include the date of licensure of (and a new period of exclusivity is not available for) a supplement for the reference product for a subsequent application filed by the same sponsor or manufacturer of the reference product (or licensor, predecessor in interest or other related entity) for a change (not including a modification to the structure of the biological product) that results in a new indication, route of administration, dosing schedule, dosage form, delivery system, delivery device or strength or for a modification to the structure of the biological product that does not result in a change in safety, purity or potency. Therefore, one must determine whether a new product includes a modification to the structure of a previously licensed product that results in a change in safety, purity or potency to assess whether the licensure of the new product is a first licensure that triggers its own period of exclusivity. Whether a subsequent application, if approved, warrants exclusivity as the “first licensure” of a biological product is determined on a case-by-case basis with data submitted by the sponsor.
The BPCIA is complex and continues to be interpreted and implemented by the FDA. In addition, government proposals have sought to reduce the 12-year reference product exclusivity period. Other aspects of the BPCIA, some of which
may impact the BPCIA exclusivity provisions, have also been the subject of recent litigation. As a result, the ultimate impact, implementation and meaning of the BPCIA remains subject to significant uncertainty.
U.S. Healthcare Reform and Other U.S. Healthcare Laws
Manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities following product approval are also subject to regulation by numerous regulatory authorities in the United States in addition to the FDA, including the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency and state and local governments.
Healthcare providers, physicians and third-party payors in the United States and elsewhere play a primary role in the recommendation and prescription of pharmaceutical products. Arrangements with third-party payors and customers can expose pharmaceutical manufactures to broadly applicable fraud and abuse and other healthcare laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute and the federal False Claims Act, or FCA, which may constrain the business or financial arrangements and relationships through which companies sell, market and distribute pharmaceutical products. In addition, transparency laws and patient privacy regulations by federal and state governments and by governments in foreign jurisdictions can apply to the manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities of pharmaceutical manufactures. The applicable federal, state and foreign healthcare laws and regulations that can affect a pharmaceutical company’s operations include:
•
The U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully soliciting, receiving, offering or paying any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe, or rebate), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, to induce, or in return for, either the referral of an individual, or the purchase, lease, order or recommendation of any good, facility, item or service for which payment may be made, in whole or in part, under the Medicare and Medicaid programs, or other federal healthcare programs. A person or entity can be found guilty of violating the statute without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the FCA. The Anti-Kickback Statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers on the other. There are a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting some common activities from prosecution;
•
The federal civil and criminal false claims laws and civil monetary penalty laws, including the FCA, which prohibit any person or entity from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false, fictitious or fraudulent claim for payment to, or approval by, the federal government or knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used a false record or statement, including providing inaccurate billing or coding information to customers or promoting a product off-label, material to a false or fraudulent claim to the federal government. As a result of a modification made by the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009, a claim includes “any request or demand” for money or property presented to the federal government. In addition, manufacturers can be held liable under the FCA even when they do not submit claims directly to government payors if they are deemed to “cause” the submission of false or fraudulent claims. The FCA also permits a private individual acting as a “whistleblower” to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery;
•
The federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, which created federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payor (e.g., public or private) and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the U.S. federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity can be found guilty of violating HIPAA without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it;
•
HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, and their respective implementing regulations, which impose, among other things, specified requirements relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information held by covered entities and their business associates. HITECH also created new tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state
attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys’ fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions;
•
The federal legislation commonly referred to as the Physician Payments Sunshine Act, created under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, and its implementing regulations, which requires manufacturers of drugs, devices, biologics and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Children’s Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, or CMS, information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors) and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members;
•
Federal consumer protection and unfair competition laws, which broadly regulate marketplace activities and activities that potentially harm consumers; and
•
Analogous state laws and regulations, including: state anti-kickback and false claims laws, which may apply to our business practices, including, but not limited to, research, distribution, sales and marketing arrangements and claims involving healthcare items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including private insurers; state laws that require pharmaceutical companies to comply with the pharmaceutical industry’s voluntary compliance guidelines and the relevant compliance guidance promulgated by the U.S. federal government, or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources.
Pricing and rebate programs must comply with the Medicaid rebate requirements of the U.S. Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990 and more recent requirements in the ACA. If products are made available to authorized users of the Federal Supply Schedule of the General Services Administration, additional laws and requirements apply. Products must meet applicable child-resistant packaging requirements under the U.S. Poison Prevention Packaging Act. Manufacturing, sales, promotion and other activities also are potentially subject to federal and state consumer protection and unfair competition laws.
The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to additional requirements and regulations, including extensive record-keeping, licensing, storage and security requirements intended to prevent the unauthorized sale of pharmaceutical products.
The scope and enforcement of each of these laws is uncertain and subject to rapid change in the current environment of healthcare reform, especially in light of the lack of applicable precedent and regulations with respect to certain laws. Federal and state enforcement bodies have recently increased their scrutiny of interactions between healthcare companies and healthcare providers, which has led to a number of investigations, prosecutions, convictions and settlements in the healthcare industry. Prohibitions or restrictions on sales or withdrawal of future marketed products could materially affect our business in an adverse way. Changes in regulations, statutes or the interpretation of existing regulations could impact our business in the future by requiring, for example: (i) changes to our manufacturing arrangements; (ii) additions or modifications to product labeling; (iii) the recall or discontinuation of our products; or (iv) additional record-keeping requirements. If any such changes were to be imposed, they could adversely affect the operation of our business.
Ensuring our business arrangements comply with applicable healthcare laws, as well as responding to possible investigations by government authorities, can be time- and resource-consuming and can divert a company’s attention from the business.
The failure to comply with any of these laws or regulatory requirements subjects companies to possible legal or regulatory action. Depending on the circumstances, failure to meet applicable regulatory requirements can result in civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, individual imprisonment, possible exclusion from participation in federal and state funded healthcare programs, contractual damages and the curtailment or restricting of our operations, as well as additional reporting obligations and oversight if we become subject to a corporate integrity agreement or other agreement to resolve allegations of non-compliance with these laws. Any action for violation of these laws, even if successfully defended, could cause a pharmaceutical company to incur significant legal expenses and divert management’s attention from the operation of the business.
In the United States, there have been and continue to be a number of legislative initiatives to contain healthcare costs. For example, in March 2010, the ACA was passed, which substantially changes the way healthcare is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts the U.S. pharmaceutical industry. The ACA, among other things, subjects biological products to potential competition by lower-cost biosimilars, addresses a new methodology by
which rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program are calculated for drugs that are inhaled, infused, instilled, implanted or injected, increases the minimum Medicaid rebates owed by manufacturers under the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program extends the rebate program to individuals enrolled in Medicaid managed care organizations, establishes annual fees and taxes on manufacturers of certain branded prescription drugs, and creates a new Medicare Part D coverage gap discount program, in which manufacturers must agree to offer 50% (70% commencing January 1, 2019) point-of-sale discounts off negotiated prices of applicable brand drugs to eligible beneficiaries during their coverage gap period, as a condition to coverage under Medicare Part D for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs.
Some of the provisions of the ACA have yet to be fully implemented, while certain provisions have been subject to judicial and congressional challenges, as well as efforts by the former Trump administration to repeal or replace certain aspects of the ACA. Since assuming the presidency in January 2017, former President Trump signed two Executive Orders designed to delay the implementation of certain provisions of the ACA or otherwise circumvent some of the requirements for health insurance mandated by the ACA. Concurrently, Congress considered legislation that would repeal or repeal and replace all or part of the ACA. While Congress has not passed comprehensive repeal legislation, two bills affecting the implementation of certain taxes under the ACA have been signed into law. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, or TCJA, includes a provision repealing, effective January 1, 2019, the tax-based shared responsibility payment imposed by the ACA on certain individuals who fail to maintain qualifying health coverage for all or part of a year that is commonly referred to as the “individual mandate.” Additionally, on January 22, 2018, former President Trump signed a continuing resolution on appropriations for fiscal year 2018 that delayed the implementation of certain ACA-mandated fees, including the so-called “Cadillac” tax on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain high cost employer-sponsored insurance plans, the annual fee imposed on certain health insurance providers based on market share, and the medical device excise tax on non-exempt medical devices. Further, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018 among other things, amends the ACA, effective January 1, 2019, to reduce the coverage gap in most Medicare drug plans, commonly referred to as the “donut hole.”
Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted. On August 2, 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of 2% per fiscal year. These reductions went into effect on April 1, 2013 and, due to subsequent legislative amendments to the statute, will remain in effect through 2027 unless additional congressional action is taken. On January 2, 2013, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 was signed into law, which, among other things, further reduced Medicare payments to several types of providers.
Moreover, payment methodologies may be subject to changes in healthcare legislation and regulatory initiatives which could limit the amounts that federal and state governments will pay for healthcare products and services and result in reduced demand for certain pharmaceutical products or additional pricing pressures.
Additionally, there has been increasing legislative and enforcement interest in the United States with respect to specialty drug pricing practices. Specifically, there have been several recent U.S. congressional inquiries and proposed and enacted federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug pricing, reduce the cost of prescription drugs under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies for drugs.
U.S. Patent-Term Restoration and Marketing Exclusivity
Depending upon the timing, duration and specifics of FDA approval of our product candidates and any future product candidates we develop, some of our U.S. patents may be eligible for limited patent term extension under the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly referred to as the Hatch-Waxman Amendments. The Hatch-Waxman Amendments permit restoration of the patent term of up to five years as compensation for patent term lost during product development and FDA regulatory review process. Patent-term restoration, however, cannot extend the remaining term of a patent beyond a total of 14 years from the product’s approval date. The patent-term restoration period is generally one-half the time between the effective date of an IND and the submission date of an NDA or BLA plus the time between the submission date of an NDA or BLA and the approval of that application, except that the review period is reduced by any time during which the applicant failed to exercise due diligence. Only one patent applicable to an approved drug is eligible for the extension and the application for the extension must be submitted prior to the expiration of the patent. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, in consultation with the FDA, reviews and approves the application for any patent term extension or restoration. In the future, we may apply for restoration of patent term for our currently owned or licensed patents
to add patent life beyond its current expiration date, depending on the expected length of the clinical trials and other factors involved in the filing of the relevant NDA or BLA.
Marketing exclusivity provisions under the FDCA also can delay the submission or the approval of certain applications. The FDCA provides a five-year period of non-patent marketing exclusivity within the United States to the first applicant to gain approval of an NDA for a new chemical entity. A drug is a new chemical entity if the FDA has not previously approved any other new drug containing the same active moiety, which is the molecule or ion responsible for the action of the drug substance. During the exclusivity period, the FDA may not accept for review an ANDA, or a 505(b)(2) NDA submitted by another company for another version of such drug where the applicant does not own or have a legal right of reference to all the data required for approval. However, an application may be submitted after four years if it contains a certification of patent invalidity or non-infringement. The FDCA also provides three years of marketing exclusivity for an NDA, 505(b)(2) NDA or supplement to an existing NDA if new clinical investigations, other than bioavailability studies, that were conducted or sponsored by the applicant are deemed by the FDA to be essential to the approval of the application, for example, new indications, dosages or strengths of an existing drug. This three-year exclusivity covers only the conditions of use associated with the new clinical investigations and does not prohibit the FDA from approving ANDAs for drugs containing the original active agent. Five-year and three-year exclusivity will not delay the submission or approval of a full NDA. However, an applicant submitting a full NDA would be required to conduct or obtain a right of reference to all of the preclinical studies and adequate and well-controlled clinical trials necessary to demonstrate safety and effectiveness.
A drug or biologic product can also obtain pediatric market exclusivity in the United States. Pediatric exclusivity, if granted, adds six months to existing regulatory exclusivity periods and patent terms. This six-month exclusivity may be granted based on the voluntary completion of a pediatric trial in accordance with an FDA-issued “Written Request” for such a trial.
Canadian Review and Approval Process
In Canada, our biologic product candidates and our research and development activities are primarily regulated by the Food and Drugs Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, which are enforced by Health Canada (including its Biologics and Genetic Therapies Directorate). Health Canada regulates, among other things, the research, development, testing, approval, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, recordkeeping, advertising, promotion, distribution, marketing, post-approval monitoring and import and export of pharmaceutical, including biologic, products. The drug approval process under Canadian laws requires licensing of manufacturing facilities, carefully controlled research and testing of products, government review and approval of experimental results prior to giving approval to sell drug products including biologic drug products. Regulators also typically require that rigorous and specific standards such as GMP, GLP and GCP are followed in the manufacture, testing and clinical development, respectively, of any drug product. The processes for obtaining regulatory approvals in Canada, along with subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial time and financial resources. For further information, see “Risk Factors.”
The principal steps required for drug approval in Canada are as follows:
Preclinical Toxicology Studies
Non-clinical studies are conducted in vitro and in animals to evaluate pharmacokinetics, metabolism and possible toxic effects to provide evidence of the safety of the drug candidate prior to its administration to humans in clinical studies and throughout development. Such studies are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and GLP.
Initiation of Human Testing
In Canada, the process of conducting clinical trials with a new drug cannot begin until we have submitted a Clinical Trial Application, or CTA, and the required number of days has lapsed without objection from Health Canada. Biological drugs carry additional risks, as compared to traditional small molecule drugs, associated with complexity and variability in manufacturing that can contribute to increased lot-to-lot variation of the final product, and with the potential for adventitious agents. Therefore, the content requirements for the quality information for biological drugs to be used in clinical trials are different from those for standard small molecule pharmaceutical drugs (for example, the inclusion of information on manufacturing facilities is required for biological drugs). In addition, it is necessary to have more stringent controls on the release of biologic drug lots used in authorized clinical trials.
Similar regulations apply in Canada to a CTA as to an IND in the United States. If the CTA is deemed by Health Canada to be acceptable, a No Objection Letter, or NOL, would be issued. A Not Satisfactory Notice will be issued by Health Canada if significant deficiencies are identified or if timely responses to information requested have not been received. Once approved by the issuance of an NOL, two key factors influencing the rate of progression of clinical trials are the rate at which patients can be enrolled to participate in the research program and whether effective treatments are currently available for the disease that the drug is intended to treat. Patient enrollment is largely dependent upon the incidence and severity of the disease, the treatments available and the potential side effects of the drug to be tested and any restrictions for enrollment that may be imposed by regulatory agencies. For further information, see “Risk Factors.”
Clinical Trials
Similar regulations apply in Canada regarding clinical trials as in the United States. In Canada, Research Ethics Boards, or REBs, instead of IRBs, are used to review and approve clinical trial plans. Clinical trials involve the administration of an investigational new drug to human subjects under the supervision of qualified investigators, in most cases a physician, in accordance with current Good Clinical Practices, or cGCP, requirements, which include review and approval by REBs. Clinical trials are conducted under protocols detailing, among other things, the objectives of the trial, the trial procedures, the parameters to be used in monitoring safety and the efficacy criteria to be evaluated and a statistical analysis plan. Human clinical trials for new drugs are typically conducted in three sequential phases, Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3, as discussed above in the context of government regulation in the United States.
The manufacture of investigational drugs for the conduct of human clinical trials is subject to current Good Manufacturing Practice, or cGMP, requirements. Investigational drugs and active pharmaceutical ingredients imported into Canada are also subject to regulation by Health Canada relating to their labeling and distribution. Progress reports detailing the results of the clinical trials must be submitted at least annually to Health Canada and the applicable REBs, and more frequently if serious adverse events occur. Phase 1, Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials may not be completed successfully within any specified period, or at all. Furthermore, in Canada, Health Canada or the sponsor may suspend or terminate a clinical trial at any time on various grounds, including a finding that the research subjects are being exposed to an unacceptable health risk. Similarly, an REB can suspend or terminate approval of a clinical trial at its institution if the clinical trial is not being conducted in accordance with the REB’s requirements or if the drug has been associated with unexpected serious harm to subjects. Additionally, some clinical trials are overseen by an independent group of qualified experts organized by the clinical trial sponsor, known as a data safety monitoring board or committee. This group regularly reviews accumulated data and advises the study sponsor regarding the continuing safety of trial subjects, potential trial subjects and the continuing validity and scientific merit of the clinical trial. A sponsor may also suspend or terminate a clinical trial based on evolving business objectives or competitive climate.
New Drug Submission
Upon successful completion of Phase 3 clinical trials, in Canada the company sponsoring a new drug then assembles all the preclinical and clinical data and other testing relating to the product’s pharmacology, chemistry, manufacture, and controls, and submits it to Health Canada as part of a New Drug Submission, or NDS. The NDS is then reviewed by Health Canada for approval to market the drug.
As part of the approval process, Health Canada will inspect the facility or the facilities at which the drug is manufactured. Health Canada will not approve the product unless compliance with cGMP-a quality system regulating manufacturing-is satisfactory and the NDS contains data that provide substantial evidence that the drug is safe and effective in the indication studied. In addition, before approving an NDS, Health Canada will typically inspect one or more clinical sites to assure compliance with GCP.
The testing and approval process for an NDS requires substantial time, effort and financial resources, and may take several years to complete. Biologic drugs, such as our candidates, differ from standard small molecule drugs in that applicants must include more detailed chemistry and manufacturing information. This is necessary to help ensure the purity and quality of the product, for example to help ensure that it is not contaminated by an undesired microorganism. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical testing are not always conclusive and may be susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. Health Canada may not grant approval of an NDS on a timely basis, or at all. In Canada, NDSs are subject to user fees and these fees are typically increased annually to reflect inflation.
Even if Health Canada approves a product candidate, it may limit the approved indications for use of the product candidate, require that contraindications, warnings or precautions be included in the product labeling, require that post-
approval studies, including Phase 4 clinical trials, be conducted to further assess a drug’s safety after approval, require testing and surveillance programs to monitor the product after commercialization, or impose other conditions, including distribution restrictions or other risk management mechanisms.
Biologic products in particular are monitored post-approval by being placed on a lot release schedule tailored to their potential risk, manufacturing, testing and inspection history to date. With higher risk biologics, each lot is tested before being released for sale in Canada. Moderate risk biologics are periodically tested at the discretion of Health Canada while manufacturers of low risk biologics usually only need to contact Health Canada regarding lots being sold or for providing certification of complete and satisfactory testing. Products are carefully scrutinized before they are placed in any level of the lot release process, and at any time the testing regime for a biologic may be altered.
Health Canada may prevent or limit further marketing of a product based on the results of post-marketing studies or surveillance programs. After approval, some types of changes to the approved product, such as adding new indications, manufacturing changes, and additional labeling claims, are subject to further testing requirements, notification, and regulatory authority review and approval. Further, should new safety information arise, additional testing, product labeling or regulatory notification may be required.
Canadian Biosimilars
The terms “biosimilar biologic drug” and “biosimilar” are used by Health Canada to describe a biologic drug that enters the market subsequent to a version previously authorized in Canada and with demonstrated similarity to a reference biologic drug. Accordingly, a biosimilar, previously known in Canada as a subsequent entry biologic, or SEB, will in all instances be a subsequent entrant onto the Canadian market.
Based on Health Canada guidance documents, a biosimilar can rely in part on prior information regarding safety and efficacy that is deemed relevant due to the demonstration of similarity to the reference biologic drug and which influences the amount and type of original data required. Generic drugs are chemically derived products that are pharmaceutically equivalent to innovative drugs, whereas biosimilars are products of a biologic nature that are similar to innovative biologics. According to Health Canada, it is not currently possible to demonstrate that two biologic drugs are pharmaceutically equivalent, and therefore the regulatory approval process for generics and biosimilars is different: biosimilars are approved using the standard NDS pathway with some allowances made for reduced safety and efficacy information set out in guidance documents, while generic drugs are approved using an abbreviated new drug submission pathway set in guidance and law under the Food and Drug Regulations. In part because it continues to be set out only in guidance and not law, the specific requirements in order to receive biosimilar approval are subject to some uncertainty.
As discussed above, all biosimilars enter the market subsequent to a biologic drug product previously approved in Canada and to which the biosimilar is considered similar. As such, biosimilars are subject to existing laws and regulations outlined in the Patented Medicines (Notice of Compliance) Regulations and the Food and Drug Regulations, and related guidance documents.
Similar to the Hatch-Waxman Act in the United States, Canada has the Patented Medicines (NOC) Regulations under the Patent Act which require a company that files a drug submission that references a patented product (for example, a biosimilar) to address any relevant patents listed on the Patent Register against the reference product, prior to being able to receive approval from Health Canada. The Canadian regime is similar to the United States regime, but a number of distinctions do exist.
Like the United States, Canada also has data protection, but again differences exist between the two jurisdictions. For example, Canada’s data protection applies to an “innovative drug,” which is defined as a drug that contains a medicinal ingredient not previously approved in a drug by the Minister and that is not a variation of a previously approved medicinal ingredient such as a salt, ester, enantiomer, solvate or polymorph. If a product is deemed to be an innovate drug, it is eligible for an eight-year period of data protection (with an additional six-month pediatric extension in some circumstances). In general, biologics can be considered innovative drugs but typically biosimilars are not.
European Union Drug Development
In the European Union, or EU, our future products also may be subject to extensive regulatory requirements. As in the United States, medicinal products can be marketed only if a marketing authorization from the competent regulatory agencies has been obtained.
Similar to the United States, the various phases of preclinical and clinical research in the European Union are subject to significant regulatory controls. Although the EU Clinical Trials Directive 2001/20/EC has sought to harmonize the EU clinical trials regulatory framework, setting out common rules for the control and authorization of clinical trials in the EU, the EU member states have transposed and applied the provisions of the Directive differently. This has led to significant variations in the member state regimes. Under the current regime, before a clinical trial can be initiated it must be approved in each of the EU countries where the trial is to be conducted by two distinct bodies: the National Competent Authority, or NCA, and one or more Ethics Committees, or ECs. Under the current regime all suspected unexpected serious adverse reactions to the investigated drug that occur during the clinical trial have to be reported to the NCA and ECs of the member state where they occurred.
The EU clinical trials legislation currently is undergoing a transition process mainly aimed at harmonizing and streamlining clinical-trial authorization, simplifying adverse-event reporting procedures, improving the supervision of clinical trials and increasing their transparency. Recently enacted Clinical Trials Regulation EU No 536/2014 ensures that the rules for conducting clinical trials in the EU will be identical.
European Union Drug Review and Approval
In the European Economic Area, or EEA, which is comprised of the 28 member states of the EU and Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway, medicinal products can only be commercialized after obtaining a Marketing Authorization, or MA. There are two types of marketing authorizations.
•
The Community MA is issued by the European Commission through the Centralized Procedure, based on the opinion of the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use of the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, and is valid throughout the entire territory of the EEA. The Centralized Procedure is mandatory for certain types of products, such as biotechnology medicinal products, orphan medicinal products, advanced-therapy medicines such as gene-therapy, somatic cell-therapy or tissue-engineered medicines and medicinal products containing a new active substance indicated for the treatment of HIV, AIDS, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders, diabetes, auto-immune and other immune dysfunctions and viral diseases. The Centralized Procedure is optional for products containing a new active substance not yet authorized in the EEA, or for products that constitute a significant therapeutic, scientific or technical innovation or which are in the interest of public health in the EU.
•
National MAs, which are issued by the competent authorities of the Member States of the EEA and only cover their respective territory, are available for products not falling within the mandatory scope of the Centralized Procedure. Where a product has already been authorized for marketing in a member state of the EEA, this National MA can be recognized in other member states through the Mutual Recognition Procedure. If the product has not received a National MA in any member state at the time of application, it can be approved simultaneously in various member state through the Decentralized Procedure. Under the Decentralized Procedure an identical dossier is submitted to the competent authorities of each of the member state in which the MA is sought, one of which is selected by the applicant as the Reference Member State, or RMS. The competent authority of the RMS prepares a draft assessment report, a draft summary of the product characteristics, or SPC, and a draft of the labeling and package leaflet, which are sent to the other member state, referred to as the Member States Concerned, for their approval. If the Member States Concerned raise no objections, based on a potential serious risk to public health, to the assessment, SPC, labeling, or packaging proposed by the RMS, the product is subsequently granted a national MA in all the member states (i.e., in the RMS and the Member States Concerned).
Under the above described procedures, before granting the MA, the EMA or the competent authorities of the member states of the EEA make an assessment of the risk-benefit balance of the product on the basis of scientific criteria concerning its quality, safety and efficacy.
European Union Orphan Designation and Exclusivity
In the European Union, the EMA’s Committee for Orphan Medicinal Products grants orphan drug designation to promote the development of products that are intended for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of life-threatening or chronically debilitating conditions affecting not more than five in 10,000 persons in the European Union community (or where it is unlikely that the development of the medicine would generate sufficient return to justify the investment) and for which no satisfactory method of diagnosis, prevention or treatment has been authorized (or, if a method exists, the product would be a significant benefit to those affected).
In the European Union, orphan drug designation entitles a party to financial incentives such as reduction of fees or fee waivers and 10 years of market exclusivity is granted following medicinal product approval. This period may be reduced to six years if the orphan drug designation criteria are no longer met, including where it is shown that the product is sufficiently profitable not to justify maintenance of market exclusivity. Orphan drug designation must be requested before submitting an application for MA. Orphan drug designation does not convey any advantage in, or shorten the duration of, the regulatory review and approval process.
European Union Drug Marketing
Much like the Anti-Kickback Statute prohibition in the United States, the provision of benefits or advantages to physicians to induce or encourage the prescription, recommendation, endorsement, purchase, supply, order or use of medicinal products is also prohibited in the EU. The provision of benefits or advantages to physicians is governed by the national anti-bribery laws of European Union member states, such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010. Infringement of these laws could result in substantial fines and imprisonment.
Payments made to physicians in certain EU member states must be publicly disclosed. Moreover, agreements with physicians often must be the subject of prior notification and approval by the physician’s employer, his or her competent professional organization as well as the regulatory authorities of the individual EU member states. These requirements are provided in the national laws, industry codes or professional codes of conduct, applicable in the EU member states. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in reputational risk, public reprimands, administrative penalties, fines or imprisonment.
European Data Collection
The collection and use of personal health data in the EU is governed by the provisions of the Data Protection Directive, and as of May 2018 the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR. This directive imposes several requirements relating to the consent of the individuals to whom the personal data relates, the information provided to the individuals, notification of data processing obligations to the competent national data protection authorities and the security and confidentiality of the personal data. The Data Protection Directive and GDPR also impose strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the EU to the United States. Failure to comply with the requirements of the Data Protection Directive, the GDPR, and the related national data protection laws of the EU member states may result in fines and other administrative penalties. The GDPR introduces new data protection requirements in the EU and substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. The GDPR regulations may impose additional responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process and we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms ensuring compliance with the new data protection rules. This may be onerous and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects.
Rest of the World Regulation
For other countries outside of the EU, Canada and the United States, such as countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America or Asia, the requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary from country to country. Additionally, the clinical trials must be conducted in accordance with GCP requirements and the applicable regulatory requirements and the ethical principles that have their origin in the Declaration of Helsinki.
If we fail to comply with applicable foreign regulatory requirements, we may be subject to, among other things, fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution.
Reimbursement
Sales of our products, when and if approved, will depend, in part, on the extent to which our products will be covered by third-party payors, such as government health programs, commercial insurance and managed healthcare organizations. In the United States, no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement for drug or biological products exists. Accordingly, decisions regarding the extent of coverage and amount of reimbursement to be provided for any of our products will be made on a payor-by-payor basis. As a result, coverage determination is often a time-consuming and costly process that will require us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our products to each payor separately, with no assurance that coverage and adequate reimbursement will be obtained.
The U.S. government, state legislatures and foreign governments have shown significant interest in implementing cost containment programs to limit the growth of government-paid healthcare costs, including price-controls, restrictions on reimbursement and requirements for substitution of biosimilars for branded prescription drugs. For example, the ACA contains provisions that may reduce the profitability of drug products through increased rebates for drugs reimbursed by Medicaid programs, extension of Medicaid rebates to Medicaid managed care plans, mandatory discounts for certain Medicare Part D beneficiaries and annual fees based on pharmaceutical companies’ share of sales to federal healthcare programs. Adoption of general controls and measures, coupled with the tightening of restrictive policies in jurisdictions with existing controls and measures, could limit payments for pharmaceutical drugs.
The Medicaid Drug Rebate Program requires pharmaceutical manufacturers to enter into and have in effect a national rebate agreement with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services as a condition for states to receive federal matching funds for the manufacturer’s outpatient drugs furnished to Medicaid patients. The ACA made several changes to the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, including increasing pharmaceutical manufacturers’ rebate liability by raising the minimum basic Medicaid rebate on most branded prescription drugs from 15.1% of average manufacturer price, or AMP, to 23.1% of AMP and adding a new rebate calculation for “line extensions” (i.e., new formulations, such as extended release formulations) of solid oral dosage forms of branded products, as well as potentially impacting their rebate liability by modifying the statutory definition of AMP. The ACA also expanded the universe of Medicaid utilization subject to drug rebates by requiring pharmaceutical manufacturers to pay rebates on Medicaid managed care utilization and by enlarging the population potentially eligible for Medicaid drug benefits.
The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, or the MMA, established the Medicare Part D program to provide a voluntary prescription drug benefit to Medicare beneficiaries. Under Part D, Medicare beneficiaries may enroll in prescription drug plans offered by private entities that provide coverage of outpatient prescription drugs. Unlike Medicare Part A and B, Part D coverage is not standardized. While all Medicare drug plans must give at least a standard level of coverage set by Medicare, Part D prescription drug plan sponsors are not required to pay for all covered Part D drugs, and each drug plan can develop its own drug formulary that identifies which drugs it will cover and at what tier or level. However, Part D prescription drug formularies must include drugs within each therapeutic category and class of covered Part D drugs, though not necessarily all the drugs in each category or class. Any formulary used by a Part D prescription drug plan must be developed and reviewed by a pharmacy and therapeutic committee. Government payment for some of the costs of prescription drugs may increase demand for products for which we receive marketing approval. However, any negotiated prices for our products covered by a Part D prescription drug plan likely will be lower than the prices we might otherwise obtain. Moreover, while the MMA applies only to drug benefits for Medicare beneficiaries, private payors often follow Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own payment rates. Any reduction in payment that results from the MMA may result in a similar reduction in payments from non-governmental payors.
For a drug product to receive federal reimbursement under the Medicaid or Medicare Part B programs or to be sold directly to U.S. government agencies, the manufacturer must extend discounts to entities eligible to participate in the 340B drug pricing program. The required 340B discount on a given product is calculated based on the AMP and Medicaid rebate amounts reported by the manufacturer. As of 2010, the ACA expanded the types of entities eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing, although, under the current state of the law, with the exception of children’s hospitals, these newly eligible entities will not be eligible to receive discounted 340B pricing on orphan drugs. In addition, as 340B drug pricing is determined based on AMP and Medicaid rebate data, the revisions to the Medicaid rebate formula and AMP definition described above could cause the required 340B discount to increase.
As noted above, the marketability of any products for which we receive regulatory approval for commercial sale may suffer if the government and third-party payors fail to provide coverage and reimbursement. Obtaining coverage and reimbursement for newly approved drugs and biologics is a time-consuming and costly process, and coverage may be more limited than the purposes for which a drug is approved by the FDA or comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Assuming coverage is obtained for a given product by a third-party payor, the resulting reimbursement payment rates may not be adequate or may require co-payments that patients find unacceptably high. Additionally, coverage policies and third-party reimbursement rates may change at any time. Patients who are prescribed medications for the treatment of their conditions, and their prescribing physicians, generally rely on third-party payors to reimburse all or part of the costs associated with their prescription drugs. Patients are unlikely to use products unless coverage is provided and reimbursement is adequate to cover all or a significant portion of the cost of prescribed products.
In addition, in most foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country. For example, the EU provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health
insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. There can be no assurance that any country that has price controls or reimbursement limitations for pharmaceutical products will allow favorable reimbursement and pricing arrangements for any of our products. Historically, products launched in the European Union do not follow price structures of the United States and generally prices tend to be significantly lower.
Human Capital Resources
As of March 15, 2021, we had 61 full-time employees and one contract employee. Of these employees, 35 are based out of our headquarters in Hamilton, Ontario and 27 are based out of our office in Boston, Massachusetts. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Our human capital resources objectives include identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing and integrating our existing and new employees, advisors and consultants. We have not experienced any work stoppages as a result of labor disputes or strikes. We have built a strong and positive workplace culture and we pride ourselves on maintaining good relationships with our employees. All our full-time employees enjoy a range of benefits including company-matching retirement contributions, participation in our incentive stock option program and our funding of health insurance premiums for both the employee and the employee’s family.
Corporate Information
We were incorporated in December 2014 under the Canada Business Corporations Act. Our principal executive offices are located at 270 Longwood Road South, Hamilton, ON, L8P 0A6, and our telephone number is (289) 799-0891. We have two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Fusion Pharmaceuticals US Inc. and Fusion Pharmaceuticals (Ireland) Unlimited Company, which we refer to as our Irish subsidiary. Our website address is www.fusionpharma.com. We have included our website address in this Annual Report on Form 10-K solely as an inactive textual reference.
Item 1A.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: 91b4fc7bc04d96cb760743dc9a499031
- Approx. Length: 34346 characters