# Context

Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
Overview
We are a leading luxury retailer in the home furnishings marketplace. Our curated and fully-integrated assortments are presented consistently across our sales channels in sophisticated and unique lifestyle settings that we believe are on par with world-class interior designers. We offer dominant merchandise assortments across a growing number of categories, including furniture, lighting, textiles, bathware, décor, outdoor and garden, and child and teen furnishings. We position our Galleries as showrooms for our brand, while our Source Books and websites act as virtual extensions of our stores. Our retail business is fully integrated across our multiple channels of distribution, consisting of our stores, Source Books, and websites. We have an integrated RH Hospitality experience in eight of our new Design Gallery locations, which include restaurants, wine vaults and barista bars.
Our business is fully integrated across our multiple channels of distribution, consisting of our stores, Source Books and websites. As of February 1, 2020, we operated the following number of Galleries, outlets and showrooms:
We are undertaking substantial changes in our business and operations in response to the recent global outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19).
The COVID-19 health crisis poses significant and widespread risks to our business as well as to the business environment and the markets in which we operate our business. We have already experienced significant disruption to our business as a result of the rapid development of the COVID-19 pandemic. The immediate impact from this global health crisis has been both direct in terms of disruption in numerous aspects of our business operations as well as indirect in terms of the adverse effect on overall economic conditions. The magnitude and duration of the negative impact to our business from the COVID-19 pandemic cannot be predicted with certainty. Accordingly, we withdrew all prior guidance and outlook statements that relate to the performance of our business with respect to fiscal 2020.
In response to the public health crisis posed by COVID-19, effective from March 17, 2020, the Company temporarily closed its retail locations for an indeterminate period of time. Although we continue to serve our customers virtually through our Gallery representatives and designers, as well as our online websites, our business operations are being substantially affected by applicable regulatory restrictions including stay-at-home requirements applicable in California where our corporate headquarters is located. Our decision to reopen retail locations will be affected by a number of factors including applicable regulatory restrictions and there is substantial uncertainty regarding the manner and timing in which we can return some or all of our business to more normal business operations. We may face longer
term closure requirements and other operational restrictions with respect to some or all of our physical locations for prolonged periods of time due to, among other factors, evolving and increasingly stringent federal, state and local restrictions including shelter-in-place orders. Even once we are able to reopen closed physical locations, changes in consumer behavior and health concerns may continue to impact consumer demand for our products and customer traffic at our Galleries, restaurants and outlets and may make it more difficult to staff our business operations. If we are not able to access capital at the time and on terms that our business requires, we may encounter difficulty funding our business requirements including debt repayments when due. Given the fast moving nature of the COVID-19 health crisis, and the corresponding impact on financial markets and the economy as a whole, there is an enhanced degree of uncertainty regarding the Company’s capital position and availability of capital to fund the Company’s liquidity requirements. We may not be able to access liquidity or the terms and conditions of available credit may be substantially more expensive than previously expected due to changes in financial conditions and credit markets. We may require waivers or amendments to our existing credit facilities and these requirements may trigger pricing increases from lenders for available credit. If we are not able to access credit to fund our business requirements for liquidity, or the cost of available credit increases, we may need to curtail our business operations including various business initiatives that require capital investment. We have recently commenced an effort to expand our business internationally by establishing a new retail presence in global markets including Europe and the United Kingdom. In addition, we are in the process of developing a number of new Gallery locations in the U.S. In addition, our RH Guesthouse initiative may be negatively impacted by the disease outbreak as federal, state and local governments have restricted travel, conferences, events and gatherings. Reductions in our liquidity position and the need to use capital for other day to day requirements of our business may affect a number of our business initiatives and long-term investments and as a result we may be required to curtail and/or postpone business investments including those related to international expansion, the pace of opening new Galleries in the U.S. as well as other initiatives that require capital investment.
As a result of the COVID-19 outbreak, and the corresponding reduction in our sales, we have had to institute a number of measures to mitigate expenses and reduce costs. These efforts may not be enough to offset anticipated declines in revenue including the loss of sales related to store closures, and may negatively affect our ability to quickly resume operations when we are able to re-open our Galleries, restaurants and outlets. Substantially all of our management personnel, including those in our corporate office in Corte Madera, CA, are subject to shelter-in-place requirements which have resulted in most of our management team being required to work remotely. These working arrangements as well as other related restrictions including severe limitations on travel may have an impact on our operations and management effectiveness. Although we have technology and other resources to support these new work requirements, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer material risks to our business, operations, production productivity and results of operations as a result of these restrictions. If a significant percentage of our workforce is unable to work, including because of illness or travel or government restrictions in connection with COVID-19, our operations may be negatively impacted, potentially materially adversely affecting our business, liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. The global scale and scope of COVID-19 is unknown and the duration of the business disruption and related financial impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our results will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including the duration of our RH Galleries, restaurant and outlet closures, emerging information concerning the severity of COVID-19 and the actions taken by governments and private businesses to attempt to contain COVID-19. However, the Company believes COVID-19 is likely to result in an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition, particularly if ongoing mitigation actions occur for a significant amount of time. For more information, refer to Item 1A - Risk Factors- The global outbreak of the COVID-19 virus is likely to have an adverse impact on our business.
Our net revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 was $665.0 million, compared to $670.9 million for the fourth quarter of 2018. Net revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 was negatively impacted by several factors, including higher than expected backorders due to a year-over-year decrease in inventories as well as our decision to eliminate most seasonal holiday merchandising from our business, which decision we believe contributed a larger than anticipated impact to sales as customers who might otherwise purchase our holiday merchandise chose to shop at other retailers offering holiday merchandise selections and, as a result, our net revenues were less than the prior period not only due to elimination of the sale of the holiday merchandise but also the loss of additional sales of non-holiday merchandise that would typically been made at the same time by customers attracted to our product offerings of holiday merchandise. In addition, prior periods including the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 included revenue from higher outlet
and warehouse sales stemming from our inventory optimization efforts. In fiscal 2019, we resumed introducing product expansions in our merchandise assortment including a number of new merchandise collections in both RH Interiors and RH Modern, as well as the launch of RH Beach House in the Spring and RH Ski House in the Fall. While we believe that product expansion will provide us with a significant opportunity to increase our market share and revenues, in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 we experienced some delays in the delivery of products to our customers due to back orders and special orders, which resulted from insufficient inventory to meet customer demand and slow ramp-ups at the factories that produce such products in response to the demand level from consumers.
Key Value Driving Strategies
In order to drive growth across our business, we are focused on the following long-term key strategies:
●Transform Our Real Estate Platform. We believe we have an opportunity to significantly increase our sales by transforming our real estate platform from our existing legacy retail footprint to a portfolio of Design Galleries that are sized to the potential of each market and the size of our assortment.
New sites are identified based on a variety of factors, such as (i) the availability of suitable new site locations based on several store specific factors including geographic location, demographics, and proximity to affluent consumers, (ii) the ability to negotiate favorable economic terms, as well as (iii) the satisfactory and timely completion of real estate development including procurement of permits and completion of construction. Based on our analysis, we believe we have the opportunity to operate Design Galleries in 60 to 70 locations in the United States and Canada. The number of Design Galleries we open in any fiscal year is highly dependent upon these variables and individual new Design Galleries may be subject to delay or postponement depending on the circumstances of specific projects, which we have experienced with some of our recent projects.
We opened our Portland Design Gallery in March 2018, our Nashville Design Gallery in June 2018, our New York Design Gallery and our Yountville Design Gallery in September 2018, our Minneapolis Design Gallery in September 2019, and our Columbus Design Gallery in December 2019. Our Galleries in Nashville, New York, Yountville, Minneapolis and Columbus include integrated restaurants, wine vaults and barista bars.
We have identified key learnings from our real estate transformation that have supported the development of a new multi-tier market approach that we believe will optimize both market share and return on invested capital.
First, we have developed a new RH prototype Design Gallery that is an innovative and flexible blueprint which we believe will enable us to more quickly place our disruptive product assortment and immersive retail experience into the market. The new model is a standard we will utilize in the future that is based on key learnings from more recent Design Gallery openings and will have approximately 38,000 leased selling square feet inclusive of our integrated hospitality experience. This prototype will present our assortments across our businesses and contain interior design offices and presentation rooms where design professionals can work with clients on their projects. This new model will be more capital efficient with less time and cost risk, but yield similar productivity. We anticipate the new prototype Design Galleries will represent the format of most of our upcoming Design Galleries in North America. Our most recently opened Design Galleries in Minneapolis, MN and Columbus, OH are prototype Design Galleries, and upcoming prototype locations include Corte Madera, CA, Charlotte, NC, Jacksonville, FL, Dallas, TX and Oakbrook, IL.
Second, we will continue to develop and open larger Bespoke Design Galleries in the top metropolitan markets, similar to those we opened in New York and Chicago. These iconic locations are highly profitable statements for our brand, and we believe they create a long-term competitive advantage that will be difficult to duplicate.
Third, we will continue to open indigenous Bespoke Galleries in the best second home markets where the wealthy and affluent visit and vacation. These Galleries are tailored to reflect the local culture and are sized to the potential of each market. Examples of current indigenous Bespoke Galleries include Yountville, CA and Aspen, CO.
Fourth, we are developing a new Gallery model tailored to secondary markets. Targeted to be 10,000 to 18,000 square feet, we believe these smaller expressions of our brand will enable us to gain share in markets currently only served by smaller competitors. Examples of target secondary markets include Oklahoma City, OK and Milwaukee, WI, among others. We expect these Galleries to require a substantially smaller net investment than our larger Design Galleries and to pay back our capital investment in most instances within two years or less. Our plan is to test a few of these Galleries over the next several years, and if proven successful, this format could lead to an increase in our long-term Gallery potential in the United States.
We believe our multi-tier market approach to transforming our real estate will enable us to ramp our opening cadence from 3 to 5 new Galleries per year, to a pace of 5 to 7 new Galleries per year.
Like our evolving multi-tier market approach, we have developed a multi-tier real estate strategy that is designed to significantly increase our unit level profitability and return on invested capital. Our three primary deal constructs are outlined below:
●First, due to the productivity and proof of concept of our recent new Galleries, and the addition of a powerful, traffic-generating hospitality experience, we are able to negotiate “capital light” leasing deals, where as much as 65% to 100% of the capital requirement would be funded by the landlord, versus 35% to 50% previously.
●Second, in select projects we are migrating from a leasing to a development model. We currently have two Galleries, Yountville and Minneapolis, using this new model, and have additional projects in the pipeline. In the case of Yountville and Minneapolis, we have completed or expect to complete sale-leaseback transactions that should allow us to recoup all or a large portion of our capital.
●Third, we are working on joint venture projects, where we share the upside of a development with the developer/landlord. An example of this new model would be our future Gallery and Guesthouse in Aspen, where we are contributing the value of our lease to the development in exchange for a profits interest in the project. The developer will deliver to RH a substantially turnkey Gallery and Guesthouse, while we continue to retain a 20% and 25% profits interest in the properties, respectively. We would expect to monetize the profits interest at the time of sale of the properties during the first five years. The net result should be a minimal capital investment to operationalize the business, with the expectation for a net positive capital benefit at time of monetization of the profits interest.
We anticipate that all of the above deal structures should lead to lower capital requirements, higher unit profitability, and significantly higher return on invested capital versus our prior Gallery development strategies.
●Pursue International Expansion. We believe that our luxury brand positioning and unique aesthetic has strong international appeal. As such, we believe there is tremendous opportunity for the RH brand to expand globally and launch RH International in 2021 or 2022 and we are close to completing real estate transactions for approximately 5 initial locations across Europe.
●Expand Our Offering and Increase Our Market Share. We believe we have a significant opportunity to increase our market share by:
●transforming our real estate platform;
●growing our merchandise assortment and introducing new products and categories;
●expanding our service offerings, including design services;
●exploring and testing new business opportunities complementary to our core business; and
●increasing our brand awareness and customer loyalty through our Source Book circulation strategy, membership program, our digital marketing initiatives, advertising, and public relations activities and events.
During fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018 we deferred the introduction of major new product category expansions other than the ongoing development of RH Hospitality in conjunction with new Design Galleries. In fiscal 2019, we resumed introducing product expansions in our merchandise assortment including a number of new merchandise collections in both RH Interiors and RH Modern, as well as the launch of RH Beach House in the Spring and RH Ski House in the Fall.
We also plan to increase our investment in RH Interior Design with a goal of building the leading interior design firm in North America. We believe there is a significant revenue opportunity by offering world class design and installation services as we move the brand beyond creating and selling products, to conceptualizing and selling spaces.
●Grow Our Integrated Hospitality Experience. In 2015 we began to introduce an integrated hospitality experience, including restaurants, wine vaults and barista bars, into a number of our new Gallery locations. The success of our initial hospitality offering in Chicago led us to broaden this initiative by adding hospitality to a number of our other new Gallery locations. We believe this has created a unique new retail experience that cannot be replicated online, and that the addition of hospitality is helping to drive incremental sales of home furnishings in these Galleries. We plan to incorporate hospitality in many of the new Galleries that we open in the future.
●Architect New Operating Platform. We have spent the last four years architecting a new operating platform, inclusive of transitioning from a promotional to membership model, our distribution center network redesign, the redesign of our reverse logistics and outlet business, and the reconceptualization of our home delivery and customer experience, which enables us to drive lower costs and inventory levels, and higher earnings and inventory turns. Looking forward, we expect this multi-year effort to result in a dramatically improved customer experience, continued margin enhancement and significant cost savings over the next several years.
●Maximize Cash Flow and Optimize the Allocation of Capital in the Business. In fiscal 2017 and 2018, we focused on maximizing cash flow in our business and the allocation of capital. We believe that our operations and current initiatives are providing a significant opportunity to optimize the allocation of capital in our business, including generating free cash flow and optimizing our balance sheet, as well as deploying capital to repay debt and repurchase shares of our common stock, which we believe creates a long term benefit to our shareholders.
During fiscal 2017, we repurchased approximately 20.2 million shares of our common stock under two separate repurchase programs for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $1 billion. During fiscal 2018, we repurchased approximately 2.0 million shares of our common stock under a separate repurchase program for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $250 million. During fiscal 2019, we repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock under a separate repurchase program for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $250 million. Total repurchases made in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 represent 59.8% of the shares outstanding as of the end of fiscal 2016. Our focus on cash also resulted in our generating $330 million, $163 million and $415 million in free
cash flow in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively (refer to “Share Repurchase Programs” within Liquidity and Capital Resources below for our free cash flow calculation).
●Increase Operating Margins. During the period from fiscal 2016 through fiscal 2019, we have substantially increased the operating margins in our business. We anticipate continued improvements in operating margins as a result of our focus on a number of our strategic initiatives including (i) the occupancy leverage we expect to gain from our real estate transformation, (ii) product margin expansion as we continue to drive higher full price selling in our core business, and (iii) the continued cost savings of improvements to our operating platform and organizational structure.
Business Initiatives
We are undertaking a large number of new business initiatives in support of our key value driving strategies. In particular, beginning in fiscal 2016 and continuing through fiscal 2019, we have pursued a range of strategic efforts to improve our business and operations including the following:
●Introduction of Membership Model. In March 2016, we introduced the RH Members Program, an exclusive program that reimagines and simplifies the shopping experience. For an annual fee, the RH Members Program provides a set discount every day across all RH brands, excluding RH Hospitality and Waterworks, in addition to other benefits including complimentary interior design services through the RH Interior Design program and eligibility for preferred financing plans on the RH Credit Card, among other benefits. The RH Members Program allows our customers to shop for what they want, when they want, and receive the greatest value, which has resulted in orders and sales being more evenly distributed throughout the year as opposed to the peaks and valleys of orders and sales we experienced under the prior promotional model. We believe the shift to a membership model has enhanced the customer experience, rendered our brand more valuable, improved operational execution and reduced costs.
For the year ended February 1, 2020, our members drove approximately 95% of sales in our core RH business, and we had approximately 415,000 members at year end. Our core RH business reflects the product categories that the membership discount can be applied to, and as a result sales generated via Outlet, Contract, Hospitality or Waterworks are excluded.
We believe that the shift to a membership model has positively affected the financial results of our business. Specifically, we believe some of the benefits include:
Improved customer experience. Our interior design professionals can now work with customers based on their timeline and project deadlines, as opposed to our prior promotional calendar. We believe this will lead to larger overall sales transactions for individual customer design projects.
Lower cancellations and returns. As a result of the elimination of time-limited promotional events and the associated pressure of placing an order before a promotion expires, we believe the shift to a membership model has also resulted in lower rates of cancelled orders and returns.
Improved operational costs. The volume of sales, orders and shipments in our business under the prior promotional model was characterized by large spikes in customer orders based upon promotional events followed by lower orders and sales after the end of an event. This buying pattern also affected numerous other aspects of our business, including staffing and costs as we required elevated staffing levels to service the increased number of customers during peak sales events. Likewise, significant fluctuations in sales had downstream implications for our supply chain related to merchandise orders, manufacturing and production, shipment to our distribution centers and final delivery to our customers. All of these aspects of our operations are experiencing improved efficiencies as a result of the membership model whereby sales are more evenly distributed throughout the year as opposed to the peaks and valleys of orders and sales under the prior model.
●Luxury In-Home Furniture Delivery Experience. We believe there is an opportunity to improve the customer experience by enhancing our approach to services in connection with in-home delivery. We are in the process of implementing a number of measures that are designed to increase our level of control and improve service levels throughout the delivery experience to the customer’s residence. We believe that we are well positioned to develop improved solutions for in-home delivery to the customer in the luxury market. We have already adopted a number of service improvements that are yielding improvements in the customer experience and reductions in product return and exchange rates. We expect to continue to optimize our service offering to customers in connection with the in-home delivery experience and are confident that our efforts in this regard will continue to achieve substantial results.
●Elevate the Customer Experience. We are focused on improving the end-to-end customer experience. As we have elevated our brand, especially at retail, we are also working to enhance the brand experience in other aspects of our business. We are making changes in many aspects of our business processes that affect our customers, including the in-home delivery experience, improvements in product quality and enhancements in sourcing, product availability, and all aspects of customer care and service. We also believe that the introduction of experiential brand-enhancing products and services, such as expanded design ateliers, the RH Interior Design program and the launch of an integrated hospitality experience in a number of our new Galleries, will further enhance our customers’ in-store experience, allowing us to further disrupt the highly fragmented home furnishings landscape and achieve market share gains.
In fiscal 2017, fiscal 2018 and continuing into fiscal 2019, we have focused on the allocation of capital. We believe that our operations and current initiatives are providing a significant opportunity to optimize the allocation of capital in our business, including generating free cash flow and optimizing our balance sheet, as well as deploying capital to repay debt and repurchase shares of our common stock, which we believe creates a long-term benefit to our shareholders.
We continue to pursue and test numerous initiatives to improve many aspects of our business including through efforts to optimize inventory, elevate the home delivery experience, simplify our distribution network and improve our organizational design including by streamlining and realigning our home office operations, as well as to expand our product offering and transform our real estate using a range of different models for specific real estate development projects. Many of these initiatives and other initiatives such as our transition to a direct sourcing model for our rug business have improved our operating margins, but other initiatives such as RH Hospitality, RH Guesthouse and international expansion are expected to offset some planned margin improvement next year due to our investments in those platforms. There can be no assurance as to the timing and extent of the operational benefits and financial contributions of these strategic efforts. In addition, our pursuit of multiple initiatives with respect to our business in any given period may result in period-to-period changes in, and increased fluctuation in, our results of operations. We have also experienced delays in development timelines for some of our recent projects, and delays in completion of our real estate development projects or costs overruns could negatively affect our results of operations and revenues. Further, macroeconomic or political events outside of our control could impact our ability to pursue our initiatives or the success of such initiatives. For example, the COVID-19 outbreak and resulting global health crisis and related impact on financial markets have contributed to a period of significant market stress and anticipated illiquidity which is expected to negatively impact the economies and financial markets of many countries and could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, while we believe that the tariffs imposed to date on most of our goods sourced from China have not had an adverse effect on our results of operations, including our revenues, margins and earnings, there can be no assurance that the existing tariffs and the additional tariffs that will become effective, as well as other future tariffs that may be imposed, will not adversely affect our results of operation in future time periods. In addition, in recent periods the stock market has experienced significant volatility as well as periods of significant decline and is currently in a period of heightened market volatility and decline, which may negatively affect the financial health and demand levels of high-end consumers, and we can provide no assurance as to whether such trends will occur in the future. The housing market is affected by a range of factors including home prices and interest rates and slowdowns in the housing market can have a negative impact on demand for our products. Factors that affect the higher end housing market in particular may have an outsized influence on our levels of consumer demand since our business is geared toward the higher end of the home furnishings market. The above factors and other current and future operational initiatives may create additional uncertainty with respect to our consolidated net revenues and profit in the near term.
Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations
Various factors affected our results for the periods presented in this “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and such discussion generally lists the factors in order of magnitude based on their impact. Due to the global outbreak of the COVID-19 virus as discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, our operating results in the near-term are difficult to predict. Apart from the impact of the near-term actions we are undertaking in response to the COVID-19 outbreak, below are certain factors that affect our results of operations.
Our Strategic Initiatives. We are in the process of implementing a number of significant business initiatives that have had and will continue to have an impact on our results of operations, including:
●the introduction and expansion of new product categories and services;
●the timing and progress of the opening of new Design Galleries that are under development;
●the launch of RH International;
●the pursuit of our multi-tier market approach to our real estate transformation;
●the redesign of our distribution center network;
●the introduction of RH Hospitality, an integrated hospitality experience, including the roll out of an integrated food and beverage experience in a number of our new Design Galleries and Guesthouse;
●changes in our Source Book circulation strategy including the depth, frequency and timing of mailings as well as the scope of product offerings displayed in our Source Books;
●changes in our reverse logistics model resulting in transferring customer returns direct from our home delivery centers to Outlets;
●efforts to elevate the customer experience including architecting a new fully integrated back-end operating platform, inclusive of the supply chain network, the home delivery experience as well as a new metric driven quality system and company-wide decision data, vendor product initiatives and changes to the way we operate our distribution centers, home delivery centers and customer service centers; and
●leveraging the above strategic initiatives across both our RH Segment and Waterworks to drive the performance of each business.
As a result of the number of current business initiatives we are pursuing, we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future significant period-to-period variability in our financial performance and results of operations. While we anticipate that these initiatives will support the growth of our business, costs and timing issues associated with pursuing these initiatives can negatively affect our growth rates in the short term and may amplify fluctuations in our growth rates from quarter to quarter. In addition, we anticipate that our net revenues, adjusted net income and other performance metrics will remain variable as our business model continues to emphasize high growth and numerous, concurrent and evolving business initiatives.
Our Ability to Source and Distribute Products Effectively. Our net revenues and gross profit are affected by our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. Our current and anticipated demand, and our level of net revenues have been adversely affected in prior periods by constraints in our supply chain, including the inability of our vendors to produce sufficient quantities of some merchandise in a manner that was able to match market demand from our customers, leading to higher levels of customer back orders and lost sales. For example, some of our vendors experienced difficulty in producing goods in sufficient quantity to meet initial customer demand for RH Modern when it was launched in October 2015. Further, the COVID-19 outbreak is anticipated to adversely affect our
supply chain. Based on total dollar volume of purchases for fiscal 2019, approximately 70% of our products were sourced in from Asia, 16% from the United States and the remainder from other countries and regions. For fiscal 2019, approximately 38% of our products were sourced from China. For more information, refer to Item 1A - Risk Factors- The global outbreak of the COVID-19 virus is likely to have an adverse impact on our business.
Consumer Preferences and Demand. Our ability to maintain our appeal to existing customers and attract new customers depends on our ability to originate, develop and offer a compelling product assortment responsive to customer preferences and design trends. We have successfully introduced a large number of new products in past periods, which we believe has been a contributing factor in our sales growth and results of operations. Periods in which our products have achieved strong customer acceptance generally have had more favorable results. If we misjudge the market for our products or the product lines that we acquire, we may be faced with excess inventories for some products and may be required to become more promotional in our selling activities, which would impact our net revenues and gross profit.
Overall Economic Trends. The industry in which we operate is cyclical, and consequently our net revenues are affected by general economic conditions including conditions that affect the housing market. For example, reduced consumer confidence and lower availability and higher cost of consumer credit reduce demand for our products and limit our ability to increase prices or sustain price increases. We expect that some of the economic factors that are currently in place such as global economic uncertainty and market volatility may continue in future periods. We target consumers of high-end home furnishings. As a result, we believe that our sales are sensitive to a number of macroeconomic factors that influence consumer spending generally, but that our sales are particularly affected by the health of the higher end customer and demand levels from that customer demographic. While the overall home furnishings market may be influenced by factors such as employment levels, interest rates, demographics of new household formation and the affordability of homes for the first time home buyer, the higher end of the housing market may be disproportionately influenced by other factors, including stock market prices, restrictions on travel due to the COVID-19 outbreak, the number of second and third homes being bought and sold, the number of foreign buyers in higher end real estate markets in the U.S., tax policies and interest rates, and the perceived prospect for capital appreciation in higher end real estate. We have in the past experienced volatility in our sales trends related to many of these factors and believe our sales may be impacted by these economic factors in future periods. These headwinds tied to macroeconomic factors may continue in future quarters. For more information, refer to Item 1A - Risk Factors-Changes in consumer spending and factors that influence spending of the specific categories of consumers that purchase from us, including the health of the high-end housing market, may significantly impact our revenue and results of operations and - The global outbreak of the COVID-19 virus is likely to have an adverse impact on our business.
Fluctuation in Quarterly Results. Our quarterly results vary depending upon a variety of factors, including our product offerings, store openings, shifts in the timing of holidays and the timing of Source Book releases, promotional events and the timing and extent of our realization of the costs and benefits of our numerous strategic initiatives, among other things. As a result of these factors, our working capital requirements and demands on our product distribution and delivery network may fluctuate during the year. Unique factors in any given quarter may affect period-to-period comparisons between the quarters being compared, and the results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of the results that we may achieve for a full fiscal year.
How We Assess the Performance of Our Business
In assessing the performance of our business, we consider a variety of financial and operating measures that affect our results of operations, including:
Net Revenues. Net revenues reflect our sale of merchandise plus shipping and handling revenue collected from our customers, less returns and discounts. Revenues are recognized when a customer obtains control of the merchandise. We collect annual membership fees related to the RH Members Program, which are recorded as deferred revenue when collected from customers and recognized as revenue based on expected product revenues over the annual membership period.
Gross Profit. Gross profit is equal to our net revenues less cost of goods sold. Gross profit as a percentage of our net revenues is referred to as gross margin. Cost of goods sold include the direct cost of purchased merchandise;
inventory shrinkage, inventory adjustments due to obsolescence, including excess and slow-moving inventory and lower of cost or net realizable value reserves; inbound freight; all freight costs to get merchandise to our stores; design, buying and allocation costs; occupancy costs related to store operations and our supply chain, such as rent and common area maintenance for our leases; depreciation and amortization of leasehold improvements, equipment and other assets in our stores and distribution centers. In addition, cost of goods sold include all logistics costs associated with shipping product to our customers, which are partially offset by shipping income collected from customers (recorded in net revenues). We expect gross profit to increase to the extent that we successfully grow our net revenues and leverage the fixed portion of cost of goods sold.
Our gross profit can be favorably impacted by sales volume increases, as occupancy and certain other costs that are largely fixed do not necessarily increase proportionally with volume increases. Changes in the mix of our products may also impact our gross profit. We review our inventory levels on an ongoing basis in order to identify slow-moving merchandise and use product markdowns and our outlet stores to efficiently sell these products. The timing and level of markdowns are driven primarily by customer acceptance of our merchandise. The primary drivers of the costs of individual goods are raw materials costs, which fluctuate based on a number of factors beyond our control, including commodity prices, changes in supply and demand, general economic conditions, competition, import duties, tariffs and government regulation, logistics costs (which may increase in the event of, for example, expansions of or interruptions in the operation of our distribution centers, furniture home delivery centers and customer service center or damage or interruption to our information systems) and labor costs in the countries where we source our merchandise. We place orders with merchandise vendors primarily in United States dollars and, as a result, are not exposed to significant foreign currency exchange risk.
Our gross profit may not be comparable to other specialty retailers, as some companies may not include all or a portion of the costs related to their distribution network and store occupancy in calculating gross profit as we and many other retailers do, but instead may include them in selling, general and administrative expenses. In addition, certain of our store leases are accounted for as build-to-suit lease transactions which result in our recording a portion of our rent payments under these agreements in interest expense on the consolidated statements of operations.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Selling, general and administrative expenses include all operating costs not included in cost of goods sold. These expenses include payroll and payroll related expenses, store expenses other than occupancy and expenses related to many of our operations at our corporate headquarters, including utilities, depreciation and amortization, credit card fees and marketing expense, which primarily includes Source Book production, mailing and print advertising costs. All store pre-opening costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and are expensed as incurred. We expect certain of these expenses to continue to increase as we continue to open new stores, develop new product categories and otherwise pursue our current business initiatives. Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues are usually higher in lower-volume quarters and lower in higher-volume quarters because a significant portion of the costs are relatively fixed.
In addition, in recent periods we have experienced increased selling, general and administrative expenses, including certain non-cash compensation and costs associated with reorganizations and distribution center closures, product recalls, and asset impairments and lease losses, as discussed in “Basis of Presentation and Results of Operations” below.
Adjusted Operating Income, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income. We believe that adjusted operating income, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income are useful measures of operating performance, as the adjustments eliminate non-recurring and other items that are not reflective of underlying business performance, facilitate a comparison of our operating performance on a consistent basis from period-to-period and provide for a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business. We also use adjusted operating income, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted net income as methods for planning and forecasting overall expected performance and for evaluating on a quarterly and annual basis actual results against such expectations.
We define adjusted operating income as consolidated operating income, adjusted for the impact of certain non-recurring and other items that we do not consider representative of our underlying operating performance.
We define EBITDA as consolidated net income (loss) before depreciation and amortization, interest expense-net and income tax expense. Adjusted EBITDA reflects further adjustments to EBITDA to eliminate the impact of non-cash compensation, as well as certain non-recurring and other items that we do not consider representative of our underlying operating performance. Because adjusted EBITDA omits non-cash items, we feel that it is less susceptible to variances in actual performance resulting from depreciation, amortization and other non-cash charges and can be more reflective of our operating performance.
We define adjusted net income as consolidated net income (loss), adjusted for the impact of certain non-recurring and other items that we do not consider representative of our underlying operating performance. Refer to Item 6 - Selected Consolidated Financial Data for further information.
Basis of Presentation and Results of Operations
The results of operations for the fiscal years ended February 1, 2020, February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018 reflect the modified retrospective application of the new lease accounting standard (Accounting Standards Update 2016-02-Leases). For information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements, refer to Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations and other financial and operating data.
The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of total net revenues.
Fiscal 2019 Compared to Fiscal 2018
(1)Waterworks results include non-cash amortization of $0.4 million related to the inventory fair value adjustment recorded in connection with our acquisition of Waterworks during fiscal 2018.
Net revenues
Consolidated net revenues increased $141.8 million, or 5.7%, to $2,647.4 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $2,505.7 million in fiscal 2018.
Consolidated net revenues for fiscal 2019 were positively impacted by $0.4 million and for fiscal 2018 were negatively impacted by $4.7 million, in each case related to product recalls. Excluding the product recall adjustments, consolidated net revenues increased $136.7 million, or 5.4%, to $2,647.0 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $2,510.4 million in fiscal 2018. Product recalls and the establishment or adjustment of any related recall accruals can affect our results and cause quarterly fluctuations affecting the period-to-period comparisons of our results. No assurance can be provided that any accruals will be for the appropriate amount, and actual losses could be higher or lower than what we accrue from time to time, which could further affect results.
RH Segment net revenues
RH Segment net revenues increased $138.8 million, or 5.8%, to $2,514.3 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $2,375.5 million in fiscal 2018. The below discussion highlights several significant factors that resulted in increased RH Segment net revenues, which are listed in order of magnitude.
RH Segment core net revenues increased primarily due to existing Galleries, as well as an increase in retail weighted-average selling square footage related to new store openings, including New York, Nashville, Minneapolis, Columbus and Yountville. Net revenues also increased from our RH Hospitality operations and Contract business. In addition, we believe that our net revenues were negatively impacted by a decline in sales in the fourth quarter resulting from several factors, including higher than expected backorders due to a year-over-year decrease in inventories as well as our decision to eliminate most seasonal holiday merchandising from our business, which decision we believe contributed a larger than anticipated impact to sales as customers who might otherwise purchase our holiday merchandise chose to shop at other retailers offering holiday merchandise selections and, as a result, our net revenues were less than the prior period not only due to elimination of the sale of the holiday merchandise but also the loss of additional sales of non-holiday merchandise that would typically been made at the same time by customers attracted to our product offerings of holiday merchandise.
Outlet sales increased $42.4 million in fiscal 2019 compared to fiscal 2018 primarily due to increased promotional activity as a result of our efforts to reduce inventory subsequent to the distribution center closures as part of the distribution center network redesign.
RH Segment net revenues for fiscal 2019 were positively impacted by $0.4 million and for fiscal 2018 were negatively impacted by $4.7 million, in each case related to product recalls.
Waterworks net revenues
Waterworks net revenues increased $3.0 million, or 2.3%, to $133.1 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $130.2 million in fiscal 2018.
Gross profit
Consolidated gross profit increased $109.4 million, or 11.1%, to $1,095.0 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $985.6 million in fiscal 2018. As a percentage of net revenues, gross margin increased 2.1% to 41.4% of net revenues in fiscal 2019 compared to 39.3% of net revenues in fiscal 2018.
RH Segment gross profit for fiscal 2019 was negatively impacted by $4.9 million related to acceleration of depreciation due to a change in the estimated useful life of certain assets and was positively impacted by $3.8 million related to product recalls. RH Segment gross profit for fiscal 2018 was negatively impacted by $2.6 million related to acceleration of depreciation due to a change in the estimated useful life of certain assets, $1.5 million related to costs associated with distribution center closures, $1.2 million due to inventory impairment related to Holiday merchandise and $0.6 million related to product recalls.
Waterworks gross profit for fiscal 2018 was negatively impacted by $0.4 million of amortization related to the inventory fair value adjustment recorded in connection with the acquisition.
Excluding the accelerated asset depreciation, product recall adjustments, costs associated with the distribution center closures, inventory impairment and impact of the amortization related to the inventory fair value adjustment mentioned above, consolidated gross margin would have increased 1.9% to 41.4% of net revenues in fiscal 2019 compared to 39.5% of net revenues in fiscal 2018.
RH Segment gross profit
RH Segment gross profit increased $104.9 million, or 11.2%, to $1,038.7 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $933.8 million in fiscal 2018. As a percentage of net revenues, RH Segment gross margin increased 2.0% to 41.3% of net revenues in fiscal 2019 compared to 39.3% of net revenues in fiscal 2018.
Excluding the accelerated asset depreciation, product recall adjustments, costs associated with distribution center closures and inventory impairment mentioned above, RH Segment gross margin would have increased 1.9% to 41.4% of net revenues in fiscal 2019 compared to 39.5% of net revenues in fiscal 2018. The increase was primarily related to improvements in our distribution center network redesign resulting in reduced delivery expense and leverage in occupancy costs, as well as improvements in our core merchandise margins. The overall increase was partially offset by lower outlet product margins due to increased promotional activity and higher discounts due to our efforts to reduce inventory.
Waterworks gross profit
Waterworks gross profit increased $4.5 million, or 8.7%, to $56.3 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $51.8 million in fiscal 2018. As a percentage of net revenues, Waterworks gross margin increased 2.5% to 42.3% of net revenues in fiscal 2019 compared to 39.8% of net revenues in fiscal 2018.
Excluding the impact of the amortization related to the inventory fair value adjustment mentioned above, Waterworks gross margin would have increased 2.2% to 42.3% of net revenues in fiscal 2019 compared to 40.1% of net revenues in fiscal 2018.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses increased $8.3 million, or 1.2%, to $732.2 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $723.8 million in fiscal 2018.
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses increased $8.9 million, or 1.3%, to $679.7 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $670.8 million in fiscal 2018.
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2019 included impairments of $15.2 million which consisted of (i) asset impairments of $9.1 million, (ii) an RH Contemporary Art lease impairment of $4.6 million, resulting from an update to both the timing and the amount of future estimated lease related cash inflows, and (iii) other lease impairments of $1.5 million due to early exit of leased facilities. RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2019 also included acceleration of depreciation due to a change the estimated useful life of certain assets of $1.3 million, reorganization related costs of $1.1 million and a $0.5 million charge related to the termination of a service agreement, partially offset by a gain on real estate related to asset previously classified as held for sale and other land sales of $1.5 million, a favorable $1.2 million legal settlement related to historical freight charges and $0.2 million related to product recalls.
Additionally, RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2019 included advertising and marketing costs which increased $10.7 million primarily due to an increase in circulation and pages of our Source Books. This was partially offset by a decrease in corporate expenses of $3.4 million, primarily due to reduced preopening expense associated with our Design Gallery openings, partially offset by an increase in credit card fees and other corporate costs.
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2018 included a $10.0 million charge related to reorganizations primarily due to streamlining and realigning our home office operations, $8.5 million impairment recorded upon reclassification of an owned Design Gallery as asset held for sale, $3.4 million related to impairment of the RH Contemporary Art lease, $1.6 million related to costs associated with distribution center closures
and $1.0 million related to product recalls, partially offset by a favorable $5.3 million legal settlement, net of related legal expenses.
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses were 26.4% and 27.4% of net revenues for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively, excluding the asset impairments, accelerated asset depreciation, reorganization related costs, product recall adjustments, costs associated with distribution center closures and legal settlements mentioned above. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by other corporate costs.
Waterworks selling, general and administrative expenses
Waterworks selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $0.6 million, or 1.1%, to $52.5 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $53.1 million in fiscal 2018. Waterworks selling, general and administrative expenses were 39.4% and 40.8% of net revenues in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by leverage in corporate costs.
Interest expense-net
Interest expense increased $19.4 million to $87.2 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $67.8 million in fiscal 2018. Interest expense consisted of the following:
Goodwill and tradename impairment
We did not recognize goodwill or tradename impairment in fiscal 2019. We incurred a $32.1 million goodwill and tradename impairment charge in fiscal 2018 for our Waterworks reporting unit. Refer to “Impairment” within Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Loss on extinguishment of debt-net
We incurred $6.5 million of loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2019 primarily due to a $6.7 million loss from the repayment in full of the second lien term loan in September 2019, which resulted in a prepayment penalty of $4.0 million and acceleration of amortization of debt issuance costs of $2.7 million. In addition, we recognized a $1.0 million gain on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2019 due to the maturity and settlement of the 2019 Notes in June 2019 and a $0.8 million loss due to accelerated debt issuance costs related to the early repayment of the FILO term loan. We incurred a $0.9 million loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2018 due to the repayment in full of the LILO term loan, the promissory note secured by our aircraft and the equipment security notes in June 2018, which resulted in accelerated amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.6 million and a prepayment penalty of $0.3 million.
Income tax expense
Income tax expense was $48.8 million in fiscal 2019 compared to $25.2 million in fiscal 2018. Our effective tax rate was 18.1% in fiscal 2019 compared to 15.7% in fiscal 2018. The effective tax rate was significantly impacted by discrete tax benefits related to net excess tax windfalls from stock-based compensation of $21.4 million in fiscal 2019 and $19.0 million in fiscal 2018 resulting from increased option exercise activity and appreciation of our stock price. Additionally, the effective tax rate in fiscal 2018 was impacted by the goodwill impairment for the Waterworks reporting unit.
Fiscal 2018 Compared to Fiscal 2017
Fiscal 2018 includes results for fifty-two weeks and fiscal 2017 includes results for fifty-three weeks.
(1)Waterworks results include non-cash amortization of $0.4 million and $2.5 million related to the inventory fair value adjustment recorded in connection with our acquisition of Waterworks during fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
Net revenues
Consolidated net revenues increased $65.5 million, or 2.7%, to $2,505.7 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $2,440.2 million in fiscal 2017.
Consolidated net revenues for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 were negatively impacted by $4.7 million and $3.2 million, respectively, related to product recalls. Excluding the product recall adjustments, consolidated net revenues increased $67.0 million, or 2.7%, to $2,510.4 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $2,443.4 million in fiscal 2017. Product recalls and the establishment or adjustment of any related recall accruals can affect our results and cause quarterly fluctuations affecting the period-to-period comparisons of our results. No assurance can be provided that any accruals will be for the appropriate amount, and actual losses could be higher or lower than what we accrue from time to time, which could further affect results.
RH Segment net revenues
RH Segment net revenues increased $56.1 million, or 2.4%, to $2,375.5 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $2,319.3 million in fiscal 2017. The below discussion highlights several significant factors that resulted in increased RH Segment net revenues, which are listed in order of magnitude.
RH Segment core net revenues increased due to timing and an increase in total pages circulated of our Source Book mailings, as well as the introduction of new products and new product categories, including the strong performance of our Outdoor product line in fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017. In addition, RH Segment core net revenues increased due to an increase in retail weighted-average leased selling square footage related to new store openings, including New York, West Palm Beach, Toronto, Portland, Nashville and Yountville. RH Segment core net revenues also increased during fiscal 2018 due to increased revenues from our Contract business, RH Hospitality operations and Membership. The overall increase in RH Segment core net revenues was partially offset by additional discounts offered on discontinued merchandise related to the optimization of our inventory and SKU rationalization. In
addition, we believe that our net revenues were negatively impacted by a decline in sales in the fourth quarter resulting from stock market fluctuations and negative trends in high-end housing.
Outlet sales decreased $26.7 million in fiscal 2018 compared to fiscal 2017 primarily as a result of our inventory optimization efforts in fiscal 2017 as we increased our outlet promotional activity and offered higher discounts. Similar promotions and discounts were not offered to the same extent in fiscal 2018. This overall decrease was partially offset by an increase of seven outlet locations year over year, resulting in an approximate 15% increase in outlet selling square footage.
RH Segment net revenues decreased approximately $40.6 million due to fiscal 2017 representing fifty-three weeks of results, whereas fiscal 2018 included fifty-two weeks of results.
RH Segment net revenues for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 were negatively impacted by $4.7 million and $3.2 million, respectively, related to product recalls.
Waterworks net revenues
Waterworks net revenues increased $9.3 million, or 7.7%, to $130.2 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $120.8 million in fiscal 2017, primarily due to new product launches, particularly fittings for bath and kitchen. The overall increase in net revenues is partially offset by a decrease in net revenues due to Waterworks fiscal 2017, which included fifty-three weeks of results, whereas fiscal 2018 included fifty-two weeks of results.
Gross profit
Consolidated gross profit increased $146.3 million, or 17.4%, to $985.6 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $839.3 million in fiscal 2017. As a percentage of net revenues, gross margin increased 4.9% to 39.3% of net revenues in fiscal 2018 compared to 34.4% of net revenues in fiscal 2017.
RH Segment gross profit for fiscal 2018 was negatively impacted by $2.6 million related to acceleration of depreciation due to a change in the estimated useful life of certain assets, $1.5 million related to costs associated with distribution center closures, $1.2 million due to inventory impairment related to Holiday merchandise and $0.6 million related to product recalls.
RH Segment gross profit for fiscal 2017 was negatively impacted by $7.5 million related to product recalls and $1.7 million related to costs associated with distribution center closures. RH Segment gross profit for fiscal 2017 was positively impacted by $2.2 million related to the release of the remaining reserve for potential claims regarding anti-dumping duties which we believe have lapsed.
Waterworks gross profit for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 was negatively impacted by $0.4 million and $2.5 million, respectively, of amortization related to the inventory fair value adjustment recorded in connection with the acquisition.
Excluding the accelerated asset depreciation, costs associated with the distribution center closures, inventory impairment, product recall adjustments, release of the anti-dumping duty reserve and impact of the amortization related to the inventory fair value adjustment mentioned above, consolidated gross margin would have increased 4.8% to 39.5% of net revenues in fiscal 2018 compared to 34.7% of net revenues in fiscal 2017.
RH Segment gross profit
RH Segment gross profit increased $142.1 million, or 17.9%, to $933.8 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $791.7 million in fiscal 2017. As a percentage of net revenues, RH Segment gross margin increased 5.2% to 39.3% of net revenues in fiscal 2018 compared to 34.1% of net revenues in fiscal 2017.
Excluding the accelerated asset depreciation, costs associated with distribution center closures, inventory impairment, product recall adjustments and release of the anti-dumping duty reserve mentioned above, RH Segment gross margin would have increased 5.1% to 39.5% of net revenues in fiscal 2018 compared to 34.4% of net revenues in fiscal 2017. The increase was related to improvements in our core merchandise margins as our SKU rationalization efforts had a reduced impact on our margins this year compared to last year, as well as increased outlet product margins due to higher outlet and warehouse sales during fiscal 2017 driven by increased promotions and higher discounts versus fiscal 2018. In addition, we achieved leverage in our occupancy costs primarily related to our distribution center network redesign, offset by deleverage in retail occupancy costs. The overall increase in gross margin was partially offset by higher delivery costs and our investment in the ramping of our new RH Hospitality locations.
Waterworks gross profit
Waterworks gross profit increased $4.2 million, or 8.8%, to $51.8 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $47.6 million in fiscal 2017. As a percentage of net revenues, Waterworks gross margin increased 0.4% to 39.8% of net revenues in fiscal 2018 compared to 39.4% of net revenues in fiscal 2017.
Excluding the impact of the amortization related to the inventory fair value adjustment mentioned above, Waterworks gross margin would have decreased 1.4% to 40.1% of net revenues in fiscal 2018 compared to 41.5% of net revenues in fiscal 2017. The decrease in gross margin is primarily due to SKU rationalization efforts in fiscal 2018, as well as deleverage in occupancy costs resulting from lower than expected revenue growth.
Selling, general and administrative expenses
Consolidated selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $1.7 million, or 0.2%, to $723.8 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $722.2 million in fiscal 2017.
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses increased $0.3 million to $670.8 million in fiscal 2018 compared $670.5 million in fiscal 2017.
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2018 included a $10.0 million charge related to reorganizations primarily due to streamlining and realigning our home office operations, $8.5 million impairment recorded upon reclassification of an owned Design Gallery as asset held for sale, $3.4 million related to impairment of the RH Contemporary Art lease, $1.6 million related to costs associated with distribution center closures and $1.0 million related to product recalls, partially offset by a favorable $5.3 million legal settlement, net of related legal expenses.
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses for fiscal 2017 included $23.9 million related to a fully vested option grant made to Mr. Friedman in May 2017, $5.5 million costs associated with distribution center closures, $4.4 million related to impairment of the RH Contemporary Art lease, $0.9 million charge related to a reorganization, $0.2 million related to product recalls and a gain of $2.1 million related to the sale of building and land.
Employment and employee related costs, excluding the fully vested option grant to Mr. Friedman, and the severance costs associated with the reorganizations and distribution center closures mentioned above, increased $10.5 million during fiscal 2018 as compared to fiscal 2017, primarily related to incentive compensation.
Corporate expenses increased $9.5 million, primarily due to an increase in preopening expense associated with our Design Gallery openings and, to a lesser extent, an increase in credit card fees due to an increase in revenues.
Advertising and marketing costs decreased $8.9 million primarily due to the adoption of Topic 606 in the first quarter of fiscal 2018, which resulted in the costs associated with Source Books being fully expensed upon delivery to the carrier, as well as the timing of our Source Book mailings.
RH Segment selling, general and administrative expenses were 27.4% and 27.5% of net revenues for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively, excluding reorganizations, asset impairments, costs associated with distribution center closures, product recall adjustments, legal settlement, the fully vested option grant made to Mr. Friedman in May 2017 and the gain related to the sale of building and land mentioned above. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by advertising and marketing, partially offset by preopening expense associated with our Design Gallery openings.
Waterworks selling, general and administrative expenses
Waterworks selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.4 million, or 2.6%, to $53.1 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $51.7 million in fiscal 2017. Waterworks selling, general and administrative expenses were 40.8% and 42.8% of net revenues in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. The decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues was primarily driven by leverage in corporate costs.
Interest expense-net
Interest expense increased $11.8 million to $67.8 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $56.0 million in fiscal 2017. Interest expense consisted of the following:
Goodwill and tradename impairment
We incurred a $32.1 million goodwill and tradename impairment charge in fiscal 2018 and a $33.7 million goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2017 for our Waterworks reporting unit. Refer to “Impairment” within Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Loss on extinguishment of debt-net
We incurred a $0.9 million loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2018 due to the repayment in full of the LILO term loan, the promissory note secured by our aircraft and the equipment security notes in June 2018, which includes acceleration of amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.6 million and a prepayment penalty of $0.3 million. We incurred a $4.9 million loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2017 due to the repayment in full of the second lien term loan in October 2017, which resulted in a prepayment penalty of $3.0 million and accelerated amortization of debt issuance costs of $1.9 million.
Income tax expense
Income tax expense was $25.2 million in fiscal 2018 compared to $25.1 million in fiscal 2017. Our effective tax rate was 15.7% in fiscal 2018 compared to 111.5% in fiscal 2017. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2018 was significantly
impacted by discrete tax benefits related to net excess tax windfalls from stock-based compensation of $19.0 million resulting from increased option exercise activity and appreciation of the stock price, was impacted by the goodwill impairment for the Waterworks reporting unit. The effective tax rate in fiscal 2017 was significantly impacted by non-deductible stock-based compensation related to the May 2017 grant to Mr. Friedman of an option to purchase 1,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock. Refer to “Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Option Grant” within Note 16-Stock-Based Compensation in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, the effective tax rate in fiscal 2017 was impacted by tax reform and the Waterworks reporting unit goodwill impairment. The fiscal 2017 effective tax rate was favorably impacted by net excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of $7.0 million.
The United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) on December 22, 2017. The new legislation contains several key tax provisions that affect us and, as required, we have included reasonable estimates of the income tax effects of the changes in tax law and tax rate in our fiscal 2017 financial results. Since the Tax Act was passed in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017, we considered the accounting for the transition tax, deferred tax re-measurements, and other items to be provisional. We finalized our estimates within the one-year measurement period allowed by the SEC and completed our accounting for the tax effects of enactment of the Tax Act.
Our provision for income taxes in fiscal 2017 included $7.1 million of income tax expense as a result of the Tax Act, including $6.1 million for the provisional re-measurement of our net deferred tax assets for the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% and a $1.0 million charge for our provisional estimate of the transition tax. We completed our accounting for re-measurement of our deferred tax assets and recorded $0.5 million of income tax expense as a result. No additional income tax expense or benefit was recorded relating to the completion of our transition tax liability.
Quarterly Results
The following table sets forth our historical quarterly consolidated statements of operations for each of the last eight fiscal quarters ended through February 1, 2020. This quarterly information has been prepared on the same basis as our annual audited financial statements and includes all adjustments that we consider necessary to fairly state the financial information for the fiscal quarters presented. The quarterly data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.
Our quarterly results vary depending upon a variety of factors, including our product offerings, store openings, shifts in the timing of holidays, the timing of Source Book releases and promotional events, among other things. As a result of these factors, our working capital requirements and demands on our product distribution and delivery network may fluctuate during the year and results of a period shorter than a full year may not be indicative of results expected for the entire year.
(1)Adjusted net income is a supplemental measure of financial performance that is not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. We define adjusted net income as consolidated net income, adjusted for the impact of certain non-recurring and other items that we do not consider representative of our underlying operating performance. Adjusted net income is included in this filing because management believes that adjusted net income provides meaningful supplemental information for investors regarding the performance of our business and facilitates a meaningful evaluation of actual results on a comparable basis with historical results. Our management uses this non-GAAP financial measure in order to have comparable financial results to analyze changes in our underlying business from quarter to quarter. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to adjusted net income for the periods indicated below.
(a)Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the
issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for GAAP purposes for the $350 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes that were issued in June 2014 (the “2019 Notes”), for the $300 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes that were issued in June and July 2015 (the “2020 Notes”), for the $335 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes that were issued in June 2018 (the “2023 Notes”) and for the $350 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes that were issued in September 2019 (the “2024 Notes”), we separated the 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes into liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components and we are amortizing as debt discount an amount equal to the fair value of the equity components as interest expense on the 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes over their expected lives. The equity components represent the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes and the fair value of the liability components of the 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes, respectively. Amounts are presented net of interest capitalized for capital projects of $0.6 million, $0.8 million, $0.7 million and $0.6 million during the first, second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2018, respectively. Amounts are presented net of interest capitalized for capital projects of $0.7 million, $0.7 million, $0.9 million and $1.4 million during the first, second, third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019, respectively. The 2019 Notes matured on June 15, 2019 and did not impact amortization of debt discount post-maturity.
(b)The adjustment in the third quarter of fiscal 2018 represents an RH Contemporary Art lease impairment, resulting from an update to both the timing and the amount of future estimated lease related cash inflows. The adjustment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 includes acceleration of depreciation expense of $2.6 million due to a change in the estimated useful life of certain assets and a $1.2 million inventory impairment charge related to holiday merchandise. The adjustment in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 includes acceleration of depreciation expense of $3.0 million due to a change in the estimated useful lives of certain assets and a $0.5 million charge related to the termination of a service agreement associated with such assets. The adjustment in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 includes acceleration of depreciation expense of $1.9 million due to a change in the estimated useful lives of certain assets and lease impairments of $0.7 million due to early exit of leased facilities. The adjustment in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 includes lease impairments of $0.8 million due to early exit of leased facilities and asset impairments of $0.2 million. The adjustment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 includes asset impairments of $8.9 million, an RH Contemporary Art lease impairment of $4.6 million and acceleration of depreciation expense of $1.3 million due to a change in the estimated useful lives of certain assets.
(c)The adjustment in the second quarter of fiscal 2018 represents the loss on extinguishment of debt related to the LILO term loan, the promissory note secured by our aircraft and the equipment security notes, all of which were repaid in full in June 2018. The adjustment in the second quarter of fiscal 2019 represents the gain on extinguishment of debt upon the maturity and settlement of the 2019 Notes in June 2019. The adjustment in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 includes the loss on extinguishment of debt related to a second lien term loan which was repaid in full in September 2019. The adjustments in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 include the acceleration of debt issuance costs related to early repayment of the FILO term loan.
(d)Represents severance costs and related taxes associated with reorganizations.
(e)Represents adjustments to net revenues, cost of goods sold and inventory charges associated with product recalls, as well as accrual adjustments, and vendor and insurance claims.
(f)The adjustment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 represents the loss recorded upon reclassification of an owned Design Gallery as held for sale. The adjustment in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 represents a gain on real estate related to asset previously classified as held for sale and other land sales.
(g)Represents legal settlements, net of related legal expenses.
(h)Represents goodwill and tradename impairment related to the Waterworks reporting unit. Refer to “Impairment” within Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(i)Represents disposals of inventory and property and equipment, lease related charges, inventory transfer costs and other costs associated with distribution center closures.
(j)Represents the non-cash amortization of the inventory fair value adjustment recorded in connection with our acquisition of Waterworks.
(k)The adjustment in the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2019 represents the tax effect of the adjusted items based on our effective tax rates of 13.7% and 14.9%, respectively. The first and second quarters of fiscal 2019 and all quarters in fiscal 2018 assume a normalized tax rate of 21%.
(2)EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are supplemental measures of financial performance that are not required by, or presented in accordance with, GAAP. We define EBITDA as consolidated net income before depreciation and amortization, interest expense-net and income tax expense. Adjusted EBITDA reflects further adjustments to EBITDA to eliminate the impact of non-cash compensation, as well as certain non-recurring and other items that we do not consider representative of our underlying operating performance. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are included in this filing because management believes that these metrics provide meaningful supplemental information for investors regarding the performance of our business and facilitate a meaningful evaluation of operating results on a comparable basis with historical results. Our management uses these non-GAAP financial measures in order to have comparable financial results to analyze changes in our underlying business from quarter to quarter. Our measures of EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not necessarily comparable to other similarly titled captions for other companies due to different methods of calculation. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA for the periods indicated below.
(a)Represents non-cash compensation related to equity awards granted to employees.
(b)Refer to the reconciliation of net income to adjusted net income table above and the related footnotes for additional information.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
General
The primary cash needs of our business have historically been for merchandise inventories, payroll, Source Books, store rent, capital expenditures associated with opening new stores and updating existing stores, as well as the development of our infrastructure and information technology. We seek out and evaluate opportunities for effectively managing and deploying capital in ways that improve working capital and support and enhance our business initiatives and strategies. In fiscal 2017, we completed two share repurchase programs in an aggregate amount of $1 billion. A $300 million share repurchase was completed during the first quarter of fiscal 2017 and a $700 million share repurchase was completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2017. In October 2018, our Board of Directors approved a new $700 million share repurchase program, of which $250 million in share repurchases were completed in fiscal 2018, and the $700 million authorization amount was replenished by the Board of Directors in March 2019. During the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $250 million, with $450 million still available under the $700 million repurchase program. Refer to “Share Repurchase Programs” below. We evaluate our capital allocation from time to time and may engage in future
share repurchases in circumstances where buying shares of our common stock represents a good value and provides a favorable return for our shareholders.
We have $985 million in aggregate principal amount of convertible notes outstanding as of February 1, 2020, of which $300 million mature in July 2020, $335 million mature in June 2023 and $350 million mature in September 2024. The $300 million principal amount of convertible notes that we issued in fiscal 2015 mature on July 15, 2020 and are convertible through the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding July 15, 2020. We expect to repay the $300 million outstanding principal amount of the convertible notes in cash, whether in connection with a conversion of such notes or repayment at maturity in July 2020. We also expect to repay the outstanding principal amount of our other convertible notes at maturity in June 2023 and September 2024 in cash, in each case to minimize dilution. While we anticipate using excess cash, free cash flow and borrowings on our asset based credit facility to repay the convertible notes in cash to minimize dilution, we may need to pursue additional sources of liquidity to repay such convertible notes in cash at their respective maturity dates or upon early conversion, as applicable. There can be no assurance as to the availability of capital to fund such repayments, or that if capital is available through additional debt issuances or refinancing of the convertible notes, that such capital will be available on terms that are favorable to us.
Our business has relied on cash flows from operations, net cash proceeds from the issuance of the convertible senior notes, as well as borrowings under our credit facilities as our primary sources of liquidity. Our liquidity will be impacted by the outbreak of COVID-19. In response to the public health crisis posed by COVID-19, effective from March 17, 2020, the Company temporarily closed its retail locations for an indeterminate period of time. Although we continue to serve our customers virtually through our Gallery representatives and designers, as well as our online websites, our business operations are being substantially affected by applicable regulatory restrictions including stay-at-home requirements applicable in California where our corporate headquarters is located. Our decision to reopen retail locations will be affected by a number of factors including applicable regulatory restrictions and there is substantial uncertainty regarding the manner and timing in which we can return some or all of our business to more normal business operations. We may face longer term closure requirements and other operational restrictions with respect to some or all of our physical locations for prolonged periods of time due to, among other factors, evolving and increasingly stringent federal, state and local restrictions including shelter-in-place orders. Even once we are able to reopen closed physical locations, changes in consumer behavior and health concerns may continue to impact consumer demand for our products and customer traffic at our Galleries, restaurants and outlets and may make it more difficult to staff our business operations. As a result of these developments, the Company expects an unfavorable impact on its sales, results of operations and cash flows in fiscal 2020. In addition, our near term decisions regarding the sources and uses of capital in our business will reflect and adapt to changes in market conditions and disruption in our business related to COVID-19.
In response to the impact of COVID-19, we are implementing a number of measures to minimize cash outlays, including managing workforce costs, delaying planned capital expenditures, deferring new business introductions, adjusting the timing and circulation of Source Books and minimizing discretionary expenses. We also intend to negotiate with third parties to whom we have payment obligations. These negotiations may include changes in the cadence of payments to vendors, modifications to rent and other obligations. We plan to utilize our asset based credit facility, and we may pursue other sources of capital that may include other forms of external financing, in order to increase our cash position and preserve financial flexibility in response to the uncertainty in the United States and global markets resulting from COVID-19. We had outstanding borrowings under our asset based credit facility of $35.0 million as of March 27, 2020 and the amount under the revolving line of credit borrowing base that could be available pursuant to the asset based credit facility was $307.9 million, net of $13.2 million in outstanding letters of credit. We believe that these actions mitigate risks arising from COVID-19 and will be sufficient to repay our debt obligations as they become due, meet working capital requirements and fulfill other capital needs for more than the next 12 months.
Our decision to reopen retail locations will be affected by a number of factors including applicable regulatory restrictions and there is substantial uncertainty regarding the manner and timing in which we can return to normal business operations. The precise impact on our business from the disruption of financial markets and the weakening of overall economic conditions is unknown.
We extended and amended our asset based credit facility in June 2017, which has a total availability of $600 million, of which $10 million is available to Restoration Hardware Canada, Inc., and includes a $200 million accordion
feature under which the revolving line of credit may be expanded by agreement of the parties from $600 million to up to $800 million if and to the extent the lenders revise their credit commitments to encompass a larger facility. The revolving line of credit has a maturity date of June 28, 2022.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we received cash of $4.9 million for the sale of an aircraft, net of $0.3 million of costs to dispose of the aircraft, which was classified as an asset held for sale, and during the second quarter of fiscal 2017 we received cash of $10.2 million for the sale of a real estate parcel that we owned on which one of our retail Galleries was located, which was classified as an asset held for sale. During the third quarter of fiscal 2019, we executed a sale-leaseback transaction for the Yountville Design Gallery for sales proceeds of $23.5 million, which qualified for sale-leaseback accounting in accordance with ASC 842. We may pursue strategies in the future, through the use of existing assets and debt facilities, or through the pursuit of new external sources of liquidity and debt financing, to fund our strategies to enhance stockholder value. There can be no assurance that additional capital, whether raised through the sale of assets, utilization of our existing debt financing sources, or pursuit of additional debt financing sources, will be available to us on a timely manner, on favorable terms or at all. To the extent we pursue additional debt as a source of liquidity, our capitalization profile may change and may include significant leverage, and as a result we may be required to use future liquidity to repay such indebtedness and may be subject to additional terms and restrictions which affect our operations and future uses of capital.
In addition, our capital needs may change in the future due to changes in our business or new opportunities that we choose to pursue. We have invested significant capital expenditures in remodeling and opening new Design Galleries, and these capital expenditures have increased in the past and may continue to increase in future periods as we open additional Design Galleries, which may require us to undertake upgrades to historical buildings or construction of new buildings. We anticipate substantial reductions to the level of our fiscal 2020 capital expenditures in response to the change in business conditions as a result of the global health crisis from COVID-19, but the exact scope of changes in our capital plans is evolving and will depend on a variety of factors.
Our adjusted net capital expenditures include (i) capital expenditures from investing activities and (ii) cash outflows of capital related to construction activities to design and build landlord leased assets, net of tenant allowances received. Adjusted net capital expenditures in fiscal 2019 were $157.9 million, inclusive of cash received related to landlord tenant allowances of $28.3 million, and we had proceeds from sales of real estate assets of $24.1 million.
Certain lease arrangements require the landlord to fund a portion of the construction related costs through payments directly to us. Other lease arrangements for our new Design Galleries require the landlord to fund a portion of the construction related costs directly to third parties, rather than through traditional construction allowances and accordingly, under these arrangements we do not expect to receive contributions directly from our landlords related to the building of our Design Galleries. As we develop new Galleries, as well as other potential strategic initiatives in the future like our integrated hospitality experience, we may explore other models for our real estate, which could include longer lease terms or further purchases of, or joint ventures or other forms of equity ownership in, real estate interests associated with new sites and buildings. These approaches might require greater capital investment on our part than a traditional store lease with a landlord. We also believe there is an opportunity to transition our real estate strategy from a leasing model to a development model, where we potentially buy and develop our Design Galleries then recoup the investments through a sale-leaseback arrangement resulting in lower capital investment and lower rent. In the event that such capital and other expenditures require us to pursue additional funding sources, we can provide no assurances that we will be successful in securing additional funding on attractive terms or at all. In addition, the effects of COVID-19 on our business, including decisions by us to curtail the deployment of capital and due to actions taken by federal, state and local government authorities, and in some instances mall and shopping center owners, in response to the outbreak, may require changes to our real estate strategy and related capital expenditure and financing plans. For example, we may be required to suspend or defer planned construction projects and Gallery openings and delay expansions into new markets including our anticipated international expansion. In addition, we may continue to be required to make lease payments in whole or in part for our Galleries, restaurants and outlets that have been closed. Our efforts to mitigate the costs of construction delays and deferrals, store closures and other operational difficulties resulting from COVID-19, including negotiating with landlords and other third parties regarding the timing and amount of payments under existing contractual arrangements, may not be successful, and as a result, our real estate strategy may have ongoing significant liquidity needs even as we scale back our operations and expansion cadence.
There can be no assurance that we will have sufficient financial resources, or will be able to arrange financing on favorable terms to the extent necessary to fund all of our initiatives, or that sufficient incremental debt will be available to us in order to fund our cash payments in respect of the repayment of our outstanding convertible senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of $985 million at maturity of such senior convertible notes. In addition, agreements governing existing or new debt facilities may restrict our ability to operate our business in the manner we currently expect or to make required payments with respect to existing commitments including the repayment of the principal amount of our convertible senior notes in cash upon maturity of such senior notes. To the extent we need to seek waivers from any provider of debt financing, or we fail to observe the covenants or other requirements of existing or new debt facilities, any such event could have an impact on our other commitments and obligations including triggering cross defaults or other consequences with respect to other indebtedness. Our current level of indebtedness, and any additional indebtedness that we may incur, exposes us to certain risks with regards to interest rate increases and fluctuations. Our ability to make interest payments or to refinance any of our indebtedness to manage such interest rates may be limited or negatively affected by credit market conditions, macroeconomic trends and other risks.
Given the fast moving nature of the COVID-19 health crisis, and the corresponding impact on financial markets and the economy as a whole, there is an enhanced degree of uncertainty regarding the Company’s capital position and availability of capital to fund the Company’s liquidity requirements. In recognition of the significant threat to the liquidity of financial markets posed by COVID-19, the Federal Reserve and Congress have taken dramatic actions to provide liquidity to businesses and the banking system in the U.S. For example, on March 27, 2020, the President signed into law the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”), a sweeping stimulus bill intended to bolster the U.S. economy, among other things, and provide emergency assistance to qualifying businesses and individuals. There can be no assurance that these interventions by the government will be successful, and the financial markets may experience significant contractions in available liquidity. While the Company may receive financial, tax or other relief and other benefits under and as a result of the CARES Act, it is not possible to estimate at this time the availability, extent or impact of any such relief. In addition, store closures and other operational difficulties faced by the Company may negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and restrict the availability of liquidity for its operational needs, including due to, among other reasons, increased and unforeseeable liquidity needs and limited flexibility to control expenses in line with potential decreases in revenue. Any further weakening of, or other adverse developments in, the U.S. or global credit markets could affect our ability to manage our debt obligations and our ability to access future debt. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise necessary funds on favorable terms, if at all, or that future financing requirements would not require us to raise money through an equity financing or by other means that could be dilutive to holders of our capital stock. If we fail to raise sufficient additional funds, we may be required to delay or abandon some of our planned future expenditures or aspects of our current operations.
Cash Flow Analysis
A summary of operating, investing, and financing activities is set forth in the following table:
Net Cash Provided By Operating Activities
Operating activities consist primarily of net income adjusted for non-cash items including depreciation and amortization, impairments, stock-based compensation, amortization of debt discount and the effect of changes in working capital and other activities.
For fiscal 2019, net cash provided by operating activities was $339.2 million and consisted of net income of $220.4 million and non-cash items of $199.3 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash used for working capital and other activities of $80.5 million. Working capital and other activities consisted primarily of decreases in operating lease liabilities of $77.0 million primarily due to payments made under the agreements, increases in landlord assets under construction of $64.3 million, and decreases in other current liabilities and other non-current obligations of $45.8 million and $25.1 million, respectively. These decreases to working capital were partially offset by decreases in merchandise inventories of $93.3 million and decreases in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $28.4 million.
For fiscal 2018, net cash provided by operating activities was $249.6 million and consisted of net income of $135.7 million and non-cash items of $296.5 million, partially offset by an increase in cash used for working capital and other activities of $182.6 million. Working capital and other activities consisted primarily of increases in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $88.4 million related to (i) adoption of Topic 606, (ii) vendor deposits and (iii) federal and state tax receivables due to prepayments, decreases in operating lease liabilities of $70.9 million, increases in landlord assets under construction of $59.0 million and decreases in other non-current obligations of $18.1 million. These decreases to working capital were partially offset by increases in other current liabilities of $51.2 million.
For fiscal 2017, net cash provided by operating activities was $474.5 million and consisted of non-cash items of $317.4 million and an increase in cash provided by working capital and other activities of $159.7 million, partially offset by a net loss of $2.6 million. Working capital and other activities consisted primarily of decreases in inventory of $220.8 million due to our SKU rationalization initiative, outlet inventory optimization efforts and revised supply chain strategy, increases in accounts payable and accrued liabilities of $65.1 million related to timing of payments, and decreases in prepaid expenses and other current assets of $27.9 million. These increases to working capital were partially offset by increases in landlord assets under construction of $81.1 million and decreases in operating lease liabilities of $70.5 million.
Net Cash Provided By (Used In) Investing Activities
Investing activities consist primarily of investments in capital expenditures related to investments in retail stores, information technology and systems infrastructure, as well as supply chain investments. In addition, investing activities include proceeds from assets held for sale and activities associated with investing in available-for-sale securities.
For fiscal 2019, net cash used in investing activities was $122.5 million, of which $93.6 million primarily related to investments in retail stores, information technology and systems infrastructure, and supply chain investments. In addition, we made deposits on an asset under construction of $53.0 million, offset by net proceeds from the sale of building and land of $24.1 million.
For fiscal 2018, net cash used in investing activities was $80.0 million due to investments in retail stores, information technology and systems infrastructure, and supply chain investments.
For fiscal 2017, net cash provided by investing activities was $122.5 million primarily as a result of sales of investments and maturities of investments of $145.0 million and $46.9 million, respectively, the proceeds of which were used to fund the share repurchases made under the $300 Million Repurchase Program. In addition, we had net proceeds from the sale of building and land and the sale of an aircraft of $10.2 million and $4.9 million, respectively. These increases to cash were partially offset by investments in retail stores, information technology and systems infrastructure, and supply chain investments of $68.4 million, as well as purchases of investments in available-for-sale securities of $16.1 million.
Net Cash Used In Financing Activities
Financing activities consist primarily of borrowings related to convertible senior notes, credit facilities and other financing arrangements, as well as share repurchases, principal payments under finance lease agreements and other equity related transactions.
For fiscal 2019, net cash used in financing activities was $174.8 million. The $350.0 million 2019 Notes matured in June 2019, of which $278.6 million is presented within net cash used in financing activities and $70.5 million is reflected as non-cash accretion of debt discount upon settlement of debt presented in net cash provided by operating activities. Net cash used in financing activities included repurchases of approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock for an aggregate repurchase amount of $250.0 million, as well as net repayments of $57.5 million under the asset based credit facility. Net cash used in financing activities included borrowings under a $350.0 million convertible senior notes agreement issued in September 2019, which provided net proceeds of $304.1 million after taking into consideration the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions, as well as discounts upon original issuance and offering costs. Net repayments under the term loan facilities (as defined below) were $4.0 million, and net borrowings under promissory and equipment notes of $105.5 million were comprised of $52.5 million of promissory notes secured by certain equipment and $53.0 million related to promissory notes on asset under construction. Equity related transactions provided $20.1 million due to $27.1 million of proceeds from exercise of employee stock options, partially offset by $7.1 million of cash paid for employee taxes related to net settlement of equity awards. Principal payments under finance lease agreements totaled $9.7 million.
For fiscal 2018, net cash used in financing activities was $189.0 million primarily due to net repayments of debt of $254.4 million under the asset based credit facility, LILO term loan, equipment loans and promissory note secured by our aircraft, as well as due to $250 million of share repurchases made under the $950 Million Repurchase Program. The repayments of debt described above were partially funded by the $335 million convertible senior notes issued in June 2018, which provided net proceeds of $287.8 million after taking into consideration the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions, as well as discounts upon original issuance and offering costs. Equity related transactions provided $34.5 million due to $44.0 million of proceeds from exercise of employee stock options, partially offset by $9.5 million of cash paid for employee taxes related to net settlement of equity awards. Principal payments under finance lease agreements totaled $6.9 million.
For fiscal 2017, net cash used in financing activities was $686.9 million primarily due to $1.0 billion of share repurchases made under the $300 Million Repurchase Program and $700 Million Repurchase Program. Cash funding for the share repurchase programs was provided by available cash balances, net borrowings under the asset based credit facility of $200.0 million, as well as net borrowings under the term loans of $77.0 million and net borrowings under promissory and equipment notes of $31.7 million. Equity related transactions provided $19.1 million due to $24.9 million of proceeds from exercise of employee stock options, partially offset by $5.8 million of cash paid for employee taxes related to net settlement of equity awards. Principal payments under finance lease agreements totaled $6.1 million.
Non-Cash Transactions
Non-cash transactions consist of non-cash additions of property and equipment and landlord assets, reclassification of assets from landlord assets under construction to finance lease right-of-use assets and issuance of non-current notes payable related to share repurchases from former employees.
Convertible Senior Notes
0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024
In September 2019, we issued in a private offering $300 million principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2024 and issued an additional $50 million principal amount in connection with the overallotment option granted to the initial purchasers as part of the offering (collectively, the “2024 Notes”). The 2024 Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as the Trustee. The 2024 Notes will mature on September 15, 2024, unless earlier purchased by us or converted. The 2024 Notes will not bear interest, except that the 2024 Notes will be subject to “special interest” in certain limited circumstances in the event of our failure to perform certain of our obligations under the indenture governing the 2024 Notes. The 2024 Notes are unsecured obligations and do not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. Certain events are also considered “events of default” under the 2024 Notes, which may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 2024 Notes, as described in the indenture governing the 2024 Notes. Events of default under the indenture for the 2024
Notes include, among other things, the occurrence of an event of default by us as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries for money borrowed, if that event of default (i) constitutes the failure to pay when due indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount in excess of $20 million and (ii) such event of default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes then outstanding.
The initial conversion rate applicable to the 2024 Notes is 4.7304 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2024 Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $211.40 per share. The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” as defined in the indenture, we will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elects to convert its 2024 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
Prior to June 15, 2024, the 2024 Notes are convertible only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after December 31, 2019, if, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, the last reported sale price of our common stock on such trading day is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on such trading day; (2) during the five consecutive business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which, for each day of that period, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 2024 Notes for such trading day was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. As of February 1, 2020, none of these conditions have occurred and, as a result, the 2024 Notes were not convertible as of February 1, 2020. On and after June 15, 2024, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert all or a portion of their 2024 Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the 2024 Notes will be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock.
We may not redeem the 2024 Notes; however, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the notes), holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their 2024 Notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2024 Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid special interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date.
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for the issuance of the 2024 Notes, we separated the 2024 Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount, represents the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2024 Notes and the fair value of the liability component of the 2024 Notes. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its carrying amount (“debt discount”) will be amortized to interest expense using an effective interest rate of 5.74% over the expected life of the 2024 Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification.
Debt issuance costs related to the 2024 Notes were comprised of discounts upon original issuance of $3.5 million and third party offering costs of $1.3 million. In accounting for the debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, we allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative values. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected life of the 2024 Notes, and debt issuance costs attributable to the equity component are netted with the equity component in stockholders’ equity (deficit). Discounts and third party offering costs attributable to the liability component are recorded as a contra-liability and are presented net against the convertible senior notes due 2024 balance on the consolidated balance sheets.
2024 Notes-Convertible Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the 2024 Notes and exercise of the overallotment option in September 2019, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions whereby we have the option to purchase a total of approximately 1.7 million shares of our common stock at a price of approximately $211.40 per share. The total cost of the convertible note hedge transactions was approximately $91.4 million. In addition, we sold warrants whereby the holders of the warrants have the option to purchase a total of approximately 1.7 million shares of our common stock at a price of $338.24 per share. The warrants contain certain adjustment mechanisms whereby the total number of shares to be purchased under such warrants may be increased up to a cap of approximately 3.3 million shares of common stock (which cap may also be subject to adjustment). We received approximately $50.2 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and sale of the warrants are intended to offset any actual earnings dilution from the conversion of the 2024 Notes until our common stock is above approximately $338.24 per share. As these transactions meet certain accounting criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants are recorded in stockholders’ equity, are not accounted for as derivatives and are not remeasured each reporting period. The net costs incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
We recorded a deferred tax liability of $21.7 million in connection with the debt discount associated with the 2024 Notes and recorded a deferred tax asset of $22.7 million in connection with the convertible note hedge transactions. The deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset are recorded in deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023
In June 2018, we issued in a private offering $300 million principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2023 and issued an additional $35 million principal amount in connection with the overallotment option granted to the initial purchasers as part of the offering (collectively, the “2023 Notes”). The 2023 Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture between us and U.S. Bank National Association, as the Trustee. The 2023 Notes will mature on June 15, 2023, unless earlier purchased by us or converted. The 2023 Notes will not bear interest, except that the 2023 Notes will be subject to “special interest” in certain limited circumstances in the event of our failure to perform certain of our obligations under the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. The 2023 Notes are unsecured obligations and do not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. Certain events are also considered “events of default” under the 2023 Notes, which may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 2023 Notes, as described in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. Events of default under the indenture for the 2023 Notes include, among other things, the occurrence of an event of default by us as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries for money borrowed, if that event of default (i) constitutes the failure to pay when due indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount in excess of $20 million and (ii) such event of default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Notes then outstanding.
The initial conversion rate applicable to the 2023 Notes is 5.1640 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2023 Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $193.65 per share. The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” as defined in the indenture, we will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elects to convert its 2023 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
Prior to March 15, 2023, the 2023 Notes are convertible only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after September 30, 2018, if, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, the last reported sale price of our common stock on such trading day is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on such trading day; (2) during the five consecutive business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which, for each day of that period, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 2023 Notes for such trading day was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. As
of February 1, 2020, none of these conditions have occurred and, as a result, the 2023 Notes were not convertible as of February 1, 2020. On and after March 15, 2023, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert all or a portion of their 2023 Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the 2023 Notes will be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock.
We may not redeem the 2023 Notes; however, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the notes), holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their 2023 Notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2023 Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid special interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date.
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for the issuance of the 2023 Notes, we separated the 2023 Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount, represents the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2023 Notes and the fair value of the liability component of the 2023 Notes. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its carrying amount (“debt discount”) will be amortized to interest expense using an effective interest rate of 6.35% over the expected life of the 2023 Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification.
Debt issuance costs related to the 2023 Notes were comprised of discounts upon original issuance of $1.7 million and third party offering costs of $4.6 million. In accounting for the debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the 2023 Notes, we allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative values. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected life of the 2023 Notes, and debt issuance costs attributable to the equity component are netted with the equity component in stockholders’ equity (deficit). Discounts and third party offering costs attributable to the liability component were recorded as a contra-liability and are presented net against the convertible senior notes due 2023 balance on the consolidated balance sheets.
2023 Notes-Convertible Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the 2023 Notes and the exercise of the overallotment option in June 2018, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions whereby we have the option to purchase a total of approximately 1.7 million shares of our common stock at a price of approximately $193.65 per share. The total cost of the convertible note hedge transactions was $91.9 million. In addition, we sold warrants whereby the holders of the warrants have the option to purchase a total of approximately 1.7 million shares of our common stock at a price of $309.84 per share. The warrants contain certain adjustment mechanisms whereby the total number of shares to be purchased under such warrants may be increased up to a cap of 3.5 million shares of common stock (which cap may also be subject to adjustment). We received $51.0 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and sale of the warrants are intended to offset any actual earnings dilution from the conversion of the 2023 Notes until our common stock is above approximately $309.84 per share. As these transactions meet certain accounting criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants are recorded in stockholders’ equity (deficit), are not accounted for as derivatives and are not remeasured each reporting period. The net costs incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
We recorded a deferred tax liability of $22.3 million in connection with the debt discount associated with the 2023 Notes and recorded a deferred tax asset of $22.5 million in connection with the convertible note hedge transactions. The deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset are recorded in deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020
In June 2015, we issued in a private offering $250 million principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2020 and, in July 2015, we issued an additional $50 million principal amount pursuant to the exercise of the overallotment option granted to the initial purchasers as part of our June 2015 offering (collectively, the “2020 Notes”). The 2020 Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture between us and U.S. Bank National Association, as the Trustee. The 2020 Notes will mature on July 15, 2020, unless earlier purchased by us or converted. The 2020 Notes will not bear interest, except that the 2020 Notes will be subject to “special interest” in certain limited circumstances in the event of our failure to perform certain of our obligations under the indenture governing the 2020 Notes. The 2020 Notes are unsecured obligations and do not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. Certain events are also considered “events of default” under the 2020 Notes, which may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 2020 Notes, as described in the indenture governing the 2020 Notes. Events of default under the indenture for the 2020 Notes include, among other things, the occurrence of an event of default by us as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries for money borrowed, if that event of default (i) constitutes the failure to pay when due indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount in excess of $20 million and (ii) such event of default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes then outstanding. The 2020 Notes are guaranteed by our primary operating subsidiary, Restoration Hardware, Inc., as Guarantor. The guarantee is the unsecured obligation of the Guarantor and is subordinated to the Guarantor’s obligations from time to time with respect to its credit agreement and ranks equal in right of payment with respect to Guarantor’s other obligations.
The initial conversion rate applicable to the 2020 Notes is 8.4656 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2020 Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $118.13 per share. To the extent the stock price is less than $118.13 per share, the Company is required to settle the par value in cash, subject to the cash settlement averaging period under the indenture. To the extent the stock price is greater than $118.13 per share, the Company may settle the par value at the Company’s election, in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock. The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” as defined in the indenture, we will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elects to convert its 2020 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
Prior to March 15, 2020, the 2020 Notes are convertible only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after September 30, 2015, if, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, the last reported sale price of our common stock on such trading day is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on such trading day; (2) during the five consecutive business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which, for each day of that period, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 2020 Notes for such trading day was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the applicable conversion rate on such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. The first condition was satisfied during the quarter ended December 31, 2019 and, accordingly, holders may convert their 2020 Notes during the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2020. Regardless of the foregoing circumstances, on and after March 15, 2020, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert all or a portion of their 2020 Notes at any time. Upon conversion, the 2020 Notes will be settled, at our election, in cash, shares of our common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock to the extent the Company’s stock price is greater than $118.13 per share. If the Company has not delivered a notice of its election of settlement method prior to the final conversion period it will be deemed to have elected combination settlement with a dollar amount per note to be received upon conversion of $1,000. We expect to repay the $300 million outstanding principal amount of the convertible notes in cash, whether in connection with a conversion of such notes or repayment at maturity in July 2020.
We may not redeem the 2020 Notes; however, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the notes), holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their 2020 Notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2020 Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid special interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date.
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for the issuance of the 2020 Notes, we separated the 2020 Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount, represents the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2020 Notes and the fair value of the liability component of the 2020 Notes. The debt discount will be amortized to interest expense using an effective interest rate of 6.47% over the expected life of the 2020 Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification.
Debt issuance costs related to the 2020 Notes were comprised of discounts upon original issuance of $3.8 million and third party offering costs of $2.3 million. In accounting for the debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the 2020 Notes, we allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative values. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected life of the 2020 Notes, and debt issuance costs attributable to the equity component are netted with the equity component in stockholders’ equity (deficit). Discounts and third party offering costs attributable to the liability component were recorded as a contra-liability and are presented net against the convertible senior notes due 2020 balance on the consolidated balance sheets.
2020 Notes-Convertible Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the 2020 Notes in June 2015 and the exercise in full of the overallotment option in July 2015, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions whereby we have the option to purchase a total of approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock at a price of approximately $118.13 per share. The total cost of the convertible note hedge transactions was $68.3 million. In addition, we sold warrants whereby the holders of the warrants have the option to purchase a total of approximately 2.5 million shares of our common stock at a price of $189.00 per share. The warrants contain certain adjustment mechanisms whereby the total number of shares to be purchased under such warrants may be increased up to a cap of 5.1 million shares of common stock (which cap may also be subject to adjustment). We received $30.4 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and sale of the warrants are intended to offset any actual earnings dilution from the conversion of the 2020 Notes until our common stock is above approximately $189.00 per share. As these transactions meet certain accounting criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants are recorded in stockholders’ equity (deficit), are not accounted for as derivatives and are not remeasured each reporting period. The net costs incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
We recorded a deferred tax liability of $32.8 million in connection with the debt discount associated with the 2020 Notes and recorded a deferred tax asset of $26.6 million in connection with the convertible note hedge transactions. The deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset are recorded in deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
Our provision for income taxes in fiscal 2017 included $1.1 million of income tax benefit as a result of the Tax Act for the provisional re-measurement of the deferred tax asset and liability related to the 2020 Notes for the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%.
0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2019
In June 2014, we issued $350 million aggregate principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the “2019 Notes”) in a private offering. The 2019 Notes were governed by the terms of an indenture between us and U.S. Bank National Association, as the Trustee. The 2019 Notes did not bear interest, except that the 2019 Notes were
subject to “special interest” in certain limited circumstances in the event of our failure to perform certain of our obligations under the indenture governing the 2019 Notes. The 2019 Notes were unsecured obligations and did not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. Certain events were also considered “events of default” under the 2019 Notes, which could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 2019 Notes, as described in the indenture governing the 2019 Notes. The 2019 Notes matured on June 15, 2019.
The initial conversion rate applicable to the 2019 Notes was 8.6143 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2019 Notes, which was equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $116.09 per share. The conversion rate was subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, but was not adjusted for any accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change,” we would, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elected to convert its 2019 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
In June 2019, upon the maturity of the 2019 Notes, $350.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes were settled for $349.0 million in cash and 42 shares of our common stock. As a result, we recognized a gain on extinguishment of debt of $1.0 million. As of February 1, 2020, the 2019 Notes are no longer outstanding.
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for the issuance of the 2019 Notes, we separated the 2019 Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount, represents the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2019 Notes and the fair value of the liability component of the 2019 Notes. The debt discount was amortized to interest expense using an effective interest rate of 4.51% over the expected life of the 2019 Notes. The equity component was not remeasured as long as it continued to meet the conditions for equity classification.
Debt issuance costs related to the 2019 Notes were comprised of discounts and commissions payable to the initial purchasers of $4.4 million and third party offering costs of $1.0 million. In accounting for the debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the 2019 Notes, we allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative values. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component were amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected life of the 2019 Notes, and debt issuance costs attributable to the equity component were netted with the equity component in stockholders’ equity (deficit). Discounts, commissions payable to the initial purchasers and third party offering costs attributable to the liability component were recorded as a contra-liability and are presented net against the convertible senior notes due 2019 balance on the consolidated balance sheets.
2019 Notes-Convertible Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the 2019 Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions whereby we have the option to purchase a total of approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock at a price of approximately $116.09 per share. The total cost of the convertible note hedge transactions was $73.3 million. In addition, we sold warrants whereby the holders of the warrants had the option to purchase a total of approximately 3.0 million shares of our common stock at a price of $171.98 per share. We received $40.4 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and sale of the warrants were intended to offset any actual dilution from the conversion of the 2019 Notes and to effectively increase the overall conversion price from $116.09 per share to $171.98 per share. As these transactions meet certain accounting criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants were recorded in stockholders’ equity (deficit) and were not accounted for as derivatives. The net costs incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
During fiscal 2019, we delivered approximately 167,100 shares upon exercise of the warrants under the terms of the warrant agreements. The warrant agreements expired on December 6, 2019.
We recorded a deferred tax liability of $27.5 million in connection with the debt discount associated with the 2019 Notes and recorded a deferred tax asset of $28.6 million in connection with the convertible note hedge transactions. The deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset are recorded in deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheets. There is no deferred tax asset or liability remaining as of February 1, 2020 due to the maturity of the 2019 Notes.
Our provision for income taxes in fiscal 2017 included $0.1 million of income tax expense as a result of the Tax Act for the provisional re-measurement of the deferred tax asset and liability related to the 2019 Notes for the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%.
Asset Based Credit Facility and Term Loan Facilities
On June 28, 2017, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into an eleventh amended and restated credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) among Restoration Hardware, Inc., Restoration Hardware Canada, Inc., various subsidiaries of RH named therein as borrowers or guarantors, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent and collateral agent (“First Lien Administrative Agent”). The Credit Agreement has a revolving line of credit with initial availability of up to $600.0 million, of which $10.0 million is available to Restoration Hardware Canada, Inc., and includes a $200.0 million accordion feature under which the revolving line of credit may be expanded by agreement of the parties from $600.0 million to up to $800.0 million if and to the extent the lenders, whether existing lenders or new lenders, agree to increase their credit commitments. In addition, the Credit Agreement established an $80.0 million last in, last out (“LILO”) term loan facility. The Credit Agreement has a maturity date of June 28, 2022.
In June 2018, we repaid the LILO term loan in full. As a result of the repayment, we incurred a $0.5 million loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2018, which represents the acceleration of amortization of debt issuance costs. We did not incur any prepayment penalties upon the early extinguishment of the LILO term loan.
On June 12, 2018, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into a First Amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “First Amendment”). The First Amendment (a) changed the Credit Agreement’s definition of “Eligible In-Transit Inventory” to clarify the requirements to be fulfilled by the borrowers with respect to such in-transit inventory, and (b) clarified that no default or event of default was caused by any prior non-compliance with such requirements with respect to in-transit inventory. Eligible In-Transit Inventory consists of inventory being shipped from vendor locations outside of the United States. Qualifying in-transit inventory is included within the borrowing base for eligible collateral for purposes of determining the amount of borrowing available to borrowers under the Credit Agreement.
On November 23, 2018, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into a Consent and Second Amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “Second Amendment”). The Second Amendment included certain clarifying changes to, among other things: (a) address the processing of payments from insurance proceeds in connection with casualty or other insured losses with respect to property or assets of a Loan Party, and (b) add an additional category of permitted restricted payment to allow the lead borrower to make annual restricted payments of up to $3 million per fiscal year to cover payments of certain administrative and other obligations of RH in the ordinary course of business.
On April 4, 2019, Restoration Hardware, Inc., entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “Third Amendment”). The Third Amendment, among other things, (a) established a $120.0 million first in, last out (“FILO”) term loan facility, which amount was fully borrowed as of April 4, 2019 and which incurs interest at a rate that is 1.25% greater than the interest rate applicable to the revolving loans provided for under the Credit Agreement, (b) provided for additional Permitted Indebtedness, as defined in the Credit Agreement, that the loan parties can incur, and (c) modified the borrowing availability under the Credit Agreement in certain circumstances.
We repaid the full amount of the FILO term loan as of February 1, 2020 and, as a result, incurred a $0.8 million loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2019, which represents the acceleration of amortization of debt issuance costs. We did not incur any prepayment penalties upon the early extinguishment of the FILO term loan.
On May 31, 2019, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into a fourth amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “Fourth Amendment”). The Fourth Amendment, among other things, amended the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the time to deliver monthly financial statements to the lenders for the fiscal months ending February 2019 and March 2019
until June 19, 2019; (b) remove the requirement to deliver monthly financial statements to the lenders for the last fiscal month of any fiscal quarter; and (c) waive any default or event of default under the Credit Agreement relating to the delivery of monthly financial statements or other information to lenders for the fiscal months ending February 2019 and March 2019.
All obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, intangible assets, property, equipment, goods and fixtures of Restoration Hardware, Inc., Restoration Hardware Canada, Inc., RH US, LLC, Waterworks Operating Co., LLC and Waterworks IP Co., LLC.
Borrowings under the revolving line of credit are subject to interest, at the borrowers’ option, at either the bank’s reference rate or London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) (or, in the case of the revolving line of credit, the Bank of America “BA” Rate or the Canadian Prime Rate, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement, for Canadian borrowings denominated in Canadian dollars or the United States Index Rate or LIBOR for Canadian borrowings denominated in United States dollars) plus an applicable margin rate, in each case.
In addition, under the Credit Agreement, we are required to meet specified financial ratios in order to undertake certain actions, and we may be required to maintain certain levels of excess availability or meet a specified consolidated fixed-charge coverage ratio (“FCCR”). Subject to certain exceptions, the trigger for the FCCR occurs if the domestic availability under the revolving line of credit is less than the greater of (i) $40.0 million and (ii) 10% of the lesser of (x) the domestic revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement and (y) the domestic revolving borrowing base. If the availability under the Credit Agreement is less than the foregoing amount, then Restoration Hardware, Inc. is required subject to certain exceptions to maintain an FCCR of at least one to one. As of February 1, 2020, Restoration Hardware, Inc. was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants of the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement requires a daily sweep of all cash receipts and collections to prepay the loans under the agreement while (i) an event of default exists or (ii) the availability under the revolving line of credit for extensions of credit is less than the greater of (A) $40.0 million and (B) 10% of the lesser of (x) the domestic revolving borrowing base.
The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default, in certain cases subject to customary periods to cure. The occurrence of an event of default, including an event of default in connection with certain events constituting a “Material Adverse Effect” (as defined in the Credit Agreement) would permit the lenders to, among other things, terminate any existing commitments under the Credit Agreement and declare the unpaid principal, accrued and unpaid interest and all other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable.
As of February 1, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility portion of the Credit Agreement. The availability of credit at any given time under the Credit Agreement is limited by reference to a borrowing base formula based upon numerous factors, including the value of eligible inventory and eligible accounts receivable. As a result of the borrowing base formula, actual borrowing availability under the revolving line of credit could be less than the stated amount of the revolving line of credit (as reduced by the actual borrowings and outstanding letters of credit under the revolving line of credit). Under the terms of such provisions, the amount under the revolving line of credit borrowing base that could be available pursuant to the Credit Agreement as of February 1, 2020 was $321.7 million, net of $13.2 million in outstanding letters of credit.
The Credit Agreement contains various restrictive covenants, including, among others, required financial reporting, limitations on the ability to incur liens, make loans or other investments, incur additional debt, issue additional equity, merge or consolidate with or into another person, sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, or enter into transactions with affiliates, along with other restrictions and limitations typical to credit agreements of this type and size. The Credit Agreement also contains various affirmative covenants, including the obligation to deliver notice to the First Lien Administrative Agent following the Company’s obtaining knowledge of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a “Material Adverse Effect” (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
Second Lien Credit Agreement
On April 10, 2019, Restoration Hardware, Inc., entered into a credit agreement, dated as of April 9, 2019 and effective as of April 10, 2019 (the “Second Lien Credit Agreement”), among (i) Restoration Hardware, Inc., as lead borrower, (ii) the guarantors party thereto, (iii) the lenders party thereto, each of whom were managed or advised by either Benefit Street Partners L.L.C. and its affiliated investment managers or Apollo Capital Management, L.P. and its affiliated investment managers, and (iv) BSP Agency, LLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent (the “Second Lien Administrative Agent”) with respect to a second lien term loan in an aggregate principal amount equal to $200.0 million with a maturity date of April 9, 2024 (the “Second Lien Term Loan”). The second lien term loan of $200.0 million in principal was repaid in full on September 20, 2019. As a result of the repayment, we incurred a $6.7 million loss on extinguishment of debt, which includes a prepayment penalty of $4.0 million and acceleration of amortization of debt issuance costs of $2.7 million.
The Second Lien Term Loan bore interest at an annual rate generally based on LIBOR plus 6.50%. This rate was a floating rate that reset periodically based upon changes in LIBOR rates during the life of the Second Lien Term Loan. At the date of the initial borrowing, the rate was set at one-month LIBOR plus 6.50%.
Intercreditor Agreement
On April 10, 2019, in connection with the Second Lien Credit Agreement, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into an Intercreditor Agreement (the “Intercreditor Agreement”), dated as of April 9, 2019 and effective as of April 10, 2019, with the First Lien Administrative Agent and the Second Lien Administrative Agent. The Intercreditor Agreement established various customary inter-lender terms, including, without limitation, with respect to priority of liens, permitted actions by each party, application of proceeds, exercise of remedies in case of default, releases of liens and certain limitations on the amendment of the Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement without the consent of the other party. The Intercreditor Agreement is no longer in effect after repayment of the Second Lien Term Loan on September 20, 2019.
Equipment Loan Facility
On September 5, 2017, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into a Master Loan and Security Agreement with Banc of America Leasing & Capital, LLC (“BAL”) pursuant to which BAL and we agreed that BAL would finance certain equipment of ours from time to time, with each such equipment financing to be evidenced by an equipment security note setting forth the terms for each particular equipment loan. Each equipment loan is secured by a purchase money security interest in the financed equipment. As of February 1, 2020, we had $53.4 million in aggregate amounts outstanding under the equipment security notes, of which $22.0 million was included in other current liabilities and $31.4 million was included in other non-current obligations on the consolidated balance sheets. The maturity dates of the equipment security notes vary, but generally have a maturity of three or four years. We are required to make monthly installment payments under the equipment security notes.
Share Repurchase Programs
We regularly review share repurchase activity and consider various factors in determining whether and when to execute share repurchases, including, among others, current cash needs, capacity for leverage, cost of borrowings, results of operations and the market price of the our common stock.
During fiscal 2017, we repurchased approximately 20.2 million shares of our common stock under two separate repurchase programs for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $1 billion. During fiscal 2018, we repurchased approximately 2.0 million shares of our common stock under a separate repurchase program for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $250 million. During fiscal 2019, we repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock under a separate repurchase program for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $250 million. Total repurchases made in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 represent 59.8% of the shares outstanding as of the end of fiscal 2016.
We believe that these share repurchase programs will continue to be an excellent allocation of capital for the long-term benefit of our shareholders. We may undertake other repurchase programs in the future with respect to our securities.
We generated $330 million, $163 million and $415 million in free cash flow in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively, which supported our share repurchase programs. Free cash flow is calculated as net cash provided by operating activities, the non-cash accretion of debt discount upon settlement of debt and proceeds from sale of assets, less capital expenditures and principal payments under finance leases. Free cash flow excludes all non-cash items. Free cash flow is included in this filing because management believes that free cash flow provides meaningful supplemental information for investors regarding the performance of our business and facilitates a meaningful evaluation of operating results on a comparable basis with historical results. Our management uses this non-GAAP financial measure in order to have comparable financial results to analyze changes in our underlying business from quarter to quarter. A reconciliation of our net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow is as follows:
$300 Million Share Repurchase Program (Completed)
On February 21, 2017, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $300 million (the “$300 Million Repurchase Program”) through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means, including through Rule 10b18 open market repurchases, Rule 10b5-1 trading plans or through the use of other techniques such as accelerated share repurchases. In the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we repurchased approximately 7.8 million shares of our common stock under the $300 Million Repurchase Program at an average price of $38.24 per share, for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $300 million. No additional shares will be repurchased in future periods under the $300 Million Repurchase Program.
$700 Million Share Repurchase Program (Completed)
Following completion of the $300 Million Repurchase Program, our Board of Directors authorized on May 2, 2017 an additional share repurchase program of up to $700 million (the “$700 Million Repurchase Program”) through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means, including through Rule 10b18 open market repurchases, Rule 10b5-1 trading plans or through the use of other techniques such as accelerated share repurchases including through privately-negotiated arrangements in which a portion of the share repurchase program is committed in advance through a financial intermediary and/or in transactions involving hedging or derivatives. In the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we repurchased approximately 12.4 million shares of our common stock under the $700 Million Repurchase Program at an average price of $56.60 per share, for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $700 million. No additional shares will be repurchased in future periods under the $700 Million Repurchase Program.
$950 Million Share Repurchase Program (Existing)
On October 10, 2018, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $700 million through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or other means, including through Rule 10b18 open market repurchases, Rule 10b5-1 trading plans or through the use of other techniques such as accelerated share repurchases including through privately-negotiated arrangements in which a portion of the share repurchase program is committed in advance through a financial intermediary and/or in transactions involving hedging or derivatives, of which
$250.0 million in share repurchases were completed in fiscal 2018. The $700 million authorization amount was replenished by the Board of Directors on March 25, 2019 (as replenished, the “$950 Million Repurchase Program”). In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock under the $950 Million Repurchase Program at an average price of $115.36 per share, for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $250.0 million. As of February 1, 2020, there was $450 million remaining for future share repurchases under this program.
Contractual Obligations
As of February 1, 2020, our future contractual cash obligations were as follows:
(1)Under the Credit Agreement, the asset based credit facility has a maturity date of June 28, 2022. As of February 1, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under our asset based credit facility.
(2)Equipment promissory note obligations do not include interest of $2.0 million and $1.1 million for the fiscal periods 2020 and 2021-2022, respectively.
(3)The promissory notes on asset under construction is not expected to be settled in cash. Refer to “Lease Accounting” within Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
(4)We enter into operating and finance leases in the normal course of business. Most lease arrangements provide us with the option to renew the leases at defined terms. The table above includes future obligations for renewal options that are reasonably certain to be exercised and are included in the measurement of the lease liability. Amounts above do not include future lease payments under leases that have not commenced or estimated contingent rent due under operating and finance leases. As of February 1, 2020, our obligation for legally binding payments for leases signed but not yet commenced and contingent rent was $360.9 million and $6.1 million, respectively. Refer to Note 9-Leases in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Other Commitments
The Company enters into various cancellable commitments related to the procurement of merchandise inventory. As of February 1, 2020, these merchandise inventory purchase commitments were $368.2 million.
As of February 1, 2020, the liability of $8.5 million for unrecognized tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions (refer to Note 13-Income Taxes in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) has not been included in the contractual obligations table above as we are not able to reasonably estimate when cash payments for these liabilities will occur or the amount by which these liabilities will increase or decrease over time.
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
We have no material off balance sheet arrangements as of February 1, 2020.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and related notes, as well as the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Management evaluates its accounting policies, estimates, and judgments on an on-going basis. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions and such differences could be material to the consolidated financial statements.
Information on all of our significant accounting policies can be found in Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies in our audited consolidated financial statements. Management evaluates the development and selection of its critical accounting policies and estimates and believes that certain of our significant accounting policies involve a higher degree of judgment or complexity and are most significant to reporting our consolidated results of operations and financial position, and are therefore discussed as critical. The following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The following items require significant estimation or judgment in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Merchandise Inventories-Reserves
Our merchandise inventories are comprised of finished goods and are carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a weighted-average cost method. To determine if the value of inventory should be marked down below original cost, we use estimates to determine the lower of cost or net realizable value, which considers current and anticipated demand, customer preference and the merchandise age. The inventory value is adjusted periodically to reflect current market conditions, which requires management judgments that may significantly affect the ending inventory valuation, as well as gross margin. The estimates used in inventory valuation are lower of cost or net realizable value reserves and obsolescence (including excess and slow-moving inventory).
Our inventory reserves contain uncertainties that require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends. We adjust our inventory reserves for net realizable value and obsolescence based on trends, aging reports, specific identification and estimates of future retail sales prices. If actual results change from our prior estimates, we adjust our inventory reserves accordingly throughout the period. We have not made any material changes to our assumptions included in the calculations of the lower of cost or net realizable value reserves during the periods presented.
Impairment
Tradenames, Trademarks and Domain Names
We annually evaluate whether tradenames, trademarks and domain names continue to have an indefinite life. Tradenames, trademarks and domain names are reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and may be reviewed more frequently if indicators of impairment are present. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in customer demand or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, a product recall or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator.
We qualitatively assesses indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the asset is less than its carrying amount. If tradenames, trademarks and domain names are not qualitatively assessed or if such intangible assets are qualitatively assessed and it is determined it is not more likely
than not that the asset’s fair value is greater than its carrying amount, an impairment review is performed by comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value, determined using a discounted cash flow methodology, which requires management judgments that may significantly affect the ending asset valuation. Factors used in the valuation of intangible assets with indefinite lives include, but are not limited to, management’s plans for future operations, brand initiatives, recent results of operations and projected future cash flows.
In the event we quantitatively assess a reporting unit’s indefinite-lived intangible asset for impairment, we perform an impairment test which utilizes the discounted cash flow methodology under the relief-from-royalty method. Under the relief-from-royalty method, our significant assumptions include the forecasted future revenues and the estimated royalty rate, expressed as a percentage of revenues.
Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and lease right-of-use assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in customer demand or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, change in the intended use of an asset, a product recall or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining life of the primary asset is less than the carrying value, we recognize a loss equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value, usually determined by the estimated discounted cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group. The asset group is defined as the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available and largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets, which for our stores is the individual gallery level.
Since there is typically no active market for our long-lived assets, we estimate fair values based on the expected future cash flows of the asset or asset group, using a discount rate commensurate with the related risk. The estimate of fair value requires management judgments that may significantly affect the ending asset valuation. Future cash flows are estimated based on gallery-level historical results, current trends, and operating and cash flow projections. Our estimates are subject to uncertainty and may be affected by a number of factors outside our control, including general economic conditions and the competitive environment. While we believe our estimates and judgments about future cash flows are reasonable, future impairment charges may be required if the expected cash flow estimates, as projected, do not occur or if events change requiring us to revise our estimates.
Lease Accounting
Reasonably Certain Lease Term
In recognizing the lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, we utilize the lease term for which we are reasonably certain to use the underlying asset, including consideration of options to extend or terminate the lease. At lease commencement, we evaluate whether we are reasonably certain to exercise available options based on consideration of a variety of economic factors and the circumstances related to the leased asset. Factors considered include, but are not limited to, (i) the contractual terms compared to estimated market rates, (ii) the uniqueness or importance of the asset or its location, (iii) the potential costs of obtaining an alternative asset, (iv) the potential costs of relocating or ceasing use of the asset, including the consideration of leasehold improvements and other invested capital, and (v) any potential tax consequences.
The determination of the reasonably certain lease term affects the inclusion of rental payments utilized in the incremental borrowing rate calculations, the results of the lease classification test, and our consideration of certain assets held for sale or planned for sale-leaseback. The reasonably certain lease term may materially impact our financial position related to certain Design Galleries or distribution center facilities which typically have greater lease payments. Although the above factors are considered in our analysis, the assessment involves subjectivity considering our strategy, expected future events and market conditions. While we believe our estimates and judgments in determining the lease term are reasonable, future events may occur which may require us to reassess this determination.
Incremental Borrowing Rate
As most of our leases do not include an implicit interest rate, we determine the discount rate for each lease based upon the incremental borrowing rate (“IBR”) in order to calculate the present value of the lease liability at the commencement date. The IBR is computed as the rate of interest that we would have to pay to (i) borrow on a collateralized basis (ii) over a similar term (iii) an amount equal to the total lease payments (iv) in a similar economic environment. We utilize our asset based credit facility as the basis for determining the applicable IBR for each lease. We estimate the incremental borrowing rate for each lease primarily by reference to (i) yield rates on debt issuances by companies of a similar credit rating; (ii) the weighted-average lease term; and (iii) adjustments for differences between the yield rates and the actual term of the credit facility. In determining the yield rates, we utilize market information as of the beginning of the quarter in which the lease commenced. For Design Galleries, we utilize market information on the lease commencement date.
Fair Market Value
We determine the fair value of the underlying asset, and the lease components such as land and building, for purposes of determining the lease classification and allocating our contractual rental payments to the lease components. The fair value of the underlying asset and lease components also impact our assets held for sale and sale-leaseback transactions. The fair value assessments may materially impact our financial position related to certain Design Galleries or distribution center facilities which typically have greater fair values.
The determination of fair value requires subjectivity and estimates, including the use of multiple valuation techniques and uncertain inputs, such as market price per square foot and assumed capitalization rates or the replacement cost of the assets, where applicable. Where real estate valuation expertise is required we obtain independent third-party appraisals to determine the fair value of the underlying asset and lease components. While determining fair value requires a variety of input assumptions and judgment, we believe our estimates of fair market value are reasonable.
Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements
Refer to “Recently Issued Accounting Standards” within Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements within Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
Item 7A.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: a3e76c7030cb6437bebc3d7070f7f997
- Approx. Length: 33663 characters