# Context

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
INDEX TO AUDITED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Page
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
Consolidated Statements of Operations
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Note 1 Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation
Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Note 3 Acquisitions
Note 4 Receivables From and Payables to Brokers, Dealers, and Clearing Organizations
Note 5 Fair Value Measurements
Note 6 Financial Instruments Owned and Financial Instruments Sold, But Not Yet Purchased
Note 7 Available-for-Sale and Held-to-Maturity Securities
Note 8 Bank Loans
Note 9 Fixed Assets
Note 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Note 11 Borrowings and Federal Home Loan Bank Advances
Note 12 Senior Notes
Note 13 Bank Deposits
Note 14 Debentures to Stifel Financial Capital Trusts
Note 15 Disclosures About Offsetting Assets and Liabilities
Note 16 Commitments, Guarantees, and Contingencies
Note 17 Legal Proceedings
Note 18 Regulatory Capital Requirements
Note 19 Operating Leases
Note 20 Revenues From Contracts With Customers
Note 21 Interest Income and Interest Expense
Note 22 Employee Incentive, Deferred Compensation, and Retirement Plans
Note 23 Off-Balance Sheet Credit Risk
Note 24 Income Taxes
Note 25 Segment Reporting
Note 26 Earnings Per Share
Note 27 Shareholders’ Equity
Note 28 Variable Interest Entities
Note 29 Subsequent Events
Note 30 Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Stifel Financial Corp.
Opinion on the Financial Statements
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition of Stifel Financial Corp. (the Company) as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2020 and 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated February 19, 2021 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Adoption of ASU 2016-13
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method for accounting for the Allowance for Credit Losses in the year ending December 31, 2020 due to the adoption of ASU 2016-13 Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326): Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. As explained below, auditing the Company’s Allowance for Credit Losses was a critical audit matter.
Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
Critical Audit Matter
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Allowance for Credit Losses
Description of the Matter
The Company’s bank loan portfolio totaled $11.2 billion as of December 31, 2020 and the associated allowance for credit losses (ACL) was $135.3 million, which includes the allowance for loan losses of $112.0 million and the reserve for unfunded commitments of $23.3 million. The bank loan portfolio and associated ACL is comprised of commercial loans (as defined as commercial and industrial, commercial real estate, and construction and land) and consumer loans (as defined as residential real estate, securities-based loans, home equity lines of credit and other). As discussed above and in Notes 2 and 8 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2020, the Company adopted new accounting guidance related to the estimate of the ACL, resulting in ACL increase of $10.4 million. The ACL is calculated using: quantitative models that rely on a variety of factors such as historical loss experience derived from proxy data, the current credit quality of the portfolio and incorporating forward-looking information through the use of macroeconomic scenarios applied over the forecasted life of the asset and qualitative reserves for factors that are not adequately reflected in the quantitative models. Management considers various factors, as well as uncertainty inherent in the quantitative models, when assessing its qualitative reserves, including, but not limited to: model imprecision, imprecision in the macroeconomic scenario forecasts, or changes in the economic environment affecting specific portfolio segments that deviate from the macroeconomic forecasts.
How We Addressed the Matter in Our Audit
Auditing management’s estimate of the commercial qualitative allowance reserve involves a high degree of subjectivity. Management’s considerations of the inherent uncertainty in the quantitative model due to model imprecision and resulting qualitative adjustments, are highly judgmental and could have a significant effect on the ACL.
We obtained an understanding of the Company’s process for establishing the ACL, including the estimation of the qualitative allowance reserve. We evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls and governance over the appropriateness of these components of the ACL, including controls over the review of the ACL methodology, the review over the identification and measurement of qualitative adjustments, including data and assumptions used in the measurement, and management’s review of the overall adequacy of the allowance for losses.
To test the reasonableness of the qualitative adjustments used in the measurement of the ACL, we evaluated management’s assessment of the quantitative results to determine whether qualitative adjustments are necessary. With the assistance of specialists, we assessed management’s methodology and whether relevant risks were reflected in the quantitative models and whether qualitative adjustments to the model output were appropriate. We tested the sufficiency, reliability, and relevance of the information used in developing the qualitative adjustment, including portfolio specific risk assessments, historical proxy loss data, and management’s analyses of economic scenario sensitivity. We also evaluated whether the overall ACL amount, including qualitative adjustments, appropriately reflects expected credit losses within the portfolio by comparing the overall ACL to those established by peer banking institutions with similar loan portfolios. Additionally, we evaluated the reasonableness of the economic scenarios used in calculating the ACL, including agreeing information to third-party sources and assessing the weighting of the economic scenarios with the assistance of our specialists. We also reviewed subsequent events and transactions and considered whether they corroborate or contradict the Company’s conclusion.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2008.
Stamford, Connecticut
February 19, 2021
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (continued)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(1)
Net of a tax expense of $11.5 million, tax expense of $20.2 million, and tax benefit of $11.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
(2)
Reclassifications to earnings were immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Amounts are net of reclassifications to earnings of realized losses of $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2018.
(3)
As part of the adoption of ASU 2019-04, in the third quarter of 2019, the Company made a one-time election to transfer a portion of its held-to-maturity securities to available-for-sale. The transfer resulted in a net of tax increase to comprehensive income of $17.9 million. See Notes 2 and 7 for additional information on the transfer.
(4)
Reclassifications to earnings were immaterial for the year ended December 31, 2020. Amounts are net of reclassifications to earnings of gains of $3.3 million and $4.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively.
(5)
The adoption of ASU 2018-02 on January 1, 2018, resulted in a reclassification of $3.1 million to retained earnings related to cash flow hedges and investment portfolio risk. The reclassification is reflected in the activity for the year ended December 31, 2018. See Note 2 for further details.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders’ Equity
(1) Cumulative adjustments for accounting changes relate to the adoption of certain accounting updates. See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued)
The following presents cash, cash equivalents, and cash restricted for regulatory purposes for the periods presented ($ in thousands):
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (continued)
See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
STIFEL FINANCIAL CORP.
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
NOTE 1 - Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation
Nature of Operations
Stifel Financial Corp. (the “Company”), through its wholly owned subsidiaries, is principally engaged in retail brokerage; securities trading; investment banking; investment advisory; retail, consumer, and commercial banking; and related financial services. Our major geographic area of concentration is throughout the United States, with a growing presence in the United Kingdom, Europe, and Canada. Our company’s principal customers are individual investors, corporations, municipalities, and institutions.
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements include Stifel Financial Corp. and its wholly owned subsidiaries, principally Stifel, Nicolaus & Company, Incorporated (“Stifel”), Keefe Bruyette & Woods, Inc. (“KBW”), Stifel Bancorp, Inc. (“Stifel Bancorp”), Stifel Nicolaus Canada Inc. (“SNC”), and Stifel Nicolaus Europe Limited (“SNEL”). Unless otherwise indicated, the terms “we,” “us,” “our,” or “our company” in this report refer to Stifel Financial Corp. and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts. We consider significant estimates, which are most susceptible to change and impacted significantly by judgments, assumptions, and estimates, to be: valuation of financial instruments and investments in partnerships, accrual for contingencies, allowance for loan losses, derivative instruments and hedging activities, fair value of goodwill and intangible assets, provision for income taxes and related tax reserves, and forfeitures associated with stock-based compensation. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
On March 27, 2020, the Company completed the sale of Ziegler Capital Management, LLC (“ZCM”), a wholly owned asset management subsidiary. The assets and liabilities of ZCM were classified as held for sale and are included in other assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses, respectively, at December 31, 2019. See Note 10 for further information.
On November 11, 2020, our Board approved a 50% stock dividend, in the form of a three-for-two stock split, of our common stock payable on December 16, 2020, to shareholders of record as of December 2, 2020. All share and per share information has been retroactively adjusted to reflect the stock split.
Certain amounts from prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current period’s presentation. The effect of these reclassifications on our company’s previously reported consolidated financial statements was not material.
Consolidation Policies
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Stifel Financial Corp. and its subsidiaries. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. For consolidated subsidiaries that are less than wholly owned, the third-party holdings of equity interests are referred to as non-controlling interests. The portion of shareholders’ equity that is attributable to non-controlling interests for such subsidiaries is presented as non-controlling interests, a component of total equity, in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Our non-controlling interest at December 31, 2019, represented a 27.5% third-party ownership of North Shore Aviation Holdings LLC (“North Shore”), which was a consolidated subsidiary of the Company that, through its subsidiary, owns airplane engines.
On February 7, 2020, North Shore entered into a Credit Agreement with North Shore Aviation Trust Series 2020-1 (the “Trust”) whereby the Trust provided North Shore with a $120.0 million credit facility. North Shore was recapitalized with funding from the issuance of the senior notes and E-Certificates by the Trust. Upon the recapitalization, Stifel Bancorp’s equity in North Shore was redeemed. We deconsolidated the related assets, liabilities, and non-controlling interests of North Shore.
We have investments or interests in other entities for which we must evaluate whether to consolidate by determining whether we have a controlling financial interest or are considered to be the primary beneficiary. Under our current consolidation policy, we consolidate those entities where we have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the rights to receive benefits from the entity that could potentially be significant to the entity.
We determine whether we are the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity (“VIE”) by performing an analysis of the VIE’s control structure, expected benefits and losses, and expected residual returns. This analysis includes a review of, among other factors, the VIE’s capital structure, contractual terms, which interests create or absorb benefits or losses, variability, related party relationships, and the design of the VIE. We reassess our evaluation of whether an entity is a VIE when certain reconsideration events occur. We reassess our determination of whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an ongoing basis based on current facts and circumstances. See Note 28 for additional information on VIEs.
NOTE 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Cash and Cash Equivalents
We consider money market mutual funds and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are not restricted or segregated to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include deposits with banks, federal funds sold, money market mutual funds, and certificates of deposit. Cash and cash equivalents also include balances that our bank subsidiaries maintain at the Federal Reserve Bank.
Cash Segregated for Regulatory Purposes
Our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to Rule 15c3-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which requires our company to maintain cash or qualified securities in a segregated reserve account for the exclusive benefit of its clients. In accordance with Rule 15c3-3, our company has portions of its cash segregated for the exclusive benefit of clients at December 31, 2020.
Brokerage Client Receivables, Net
Brokerage client receivables include receivables of our company’s broker-dealer subsidiaries, which represent amounts due on cash and margin transactions and are generally collateralized by securities owned by clients. Brokerage client receivables, primarily consisting of floating-rate loans collateralized by customer-owned securities, are charged interest at rates similar to other such loans made throughout the industry. The receivables are reported at their outstanding principal balance net of allowance for doubtful accounts. When a brokerage client receivable is considered to be impaired, the amount of the impairment is generally measured based on the fair value of the securities acting as collateral, which is measured based on current prices from independent sources, such as listed market prices or broker-dealer price quotations. Securities owned by customers, including those that collateralize margin or other similar transactions, are not reflected in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Securities Borrowed and Securities Loaned
Securities borrowed require our company to deliver cash to the lender in exchange for securities and are included in receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations in the consolidated statements of financial condition. For securities loaned, we generally receive collateral in the form of cash in an amount in excess of the market value of securities loaned. Securities loaned are included in payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations in the consolidated statements of financial condition. We monitor the market value of securities borrowed and loaned on a daily basis, with additional collateral obtained or refunded as necessary. Fees received or paid are recorded in interest revenue or interest expense in the consolidated statements of operations.
Substantially all of these transactions are executed under master netting agreements, which gives us right of offset in the event of counterparty default; however, such receivables and payables with the same counterparty are not set off in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Repurchase Agreements
Securities purchased under agreements to resell (“resale agreements”) are collateralized financing transactions that are recorded at their contractual amounts plus accrued interest. We obtain control of collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount loaned and accrued interest under resale agreements. These agreements are short-term in nature and are generally collateralized by U.S. government securities, U.S. government agency securities, and corporate bonds. We value collateral on a daily basis, with additional collateral obtained when necessary to minimize the risk associated with this activity.
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase (“repurchase agreements”) are collateralized financing transactions that are recorded at their contractual amounts plus accrued interest. We make delivery of securities sold under agreements to repurchase and monitor the value of collateral on a daily basis. When necessary, we will deliver additional collateral.
Financial Instruments
We measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including cash equivalents, financial instruments owned, available-for-sale securities, investments, financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, and derivatives. Other than those separately discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the remaining financial instruments are generally short-term in nature, and their carrying values approximate fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (i.e., “the exit price”) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. We have categorized our financial instruments measured at fair value into a three-level classification in accordance with Topic 820, “Fair Value Measurement,” which established a hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from independent sources. Unobservable inputs reflect our assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels based on the transparency of inputs as follows:
Level 1 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) are available in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the measurement date. A quoted price for an identical asset or liability in an active market provides the most reliable fair value measurement, because it is directly observable to the market.
Level 2 - Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the measurement date. The nature of these financial instruments includes instruments for which quoted prices are available but traded less frequently, derivative instruments whose fair value have been derived using a model where inputs to the model are directly observable in the market, or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data, and instruments that are fair valued using other financial instruments, the parameters of which can be directly observed.
Level 3 - Instruments that have little to no pricing observability as of the measurement date. These financial instruments do not have two-way markets and are measured using management’s best estimate of fair value, where the inputs into the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation.
Valuation of Financial Instruments
When available, we use observable market prices, observable market parameters, or broker or dealer prices (bid and ask prices) to derive the fair value of financial instruments. In the case of financial instruments transacted on recognized exchanges, the observable market prices represent quotations for completed transactions from the exchange on which the financial instrument is principally traded.
A substantial percentage of the fair value of our financial instruments owned, available-for-sale securities, investments, and financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, are based on observable market prices, observable market parameters, or derived from broker or dealer prices. The availability of observable market prices and pricing parameters can vary from product to product. Where available, observable market prices and pricing or market parameters in a product may be used to derive a price without requiring significant judgment. In certain markets, observable market prices or market parameters are not available for all products, and fair value is determined using techniques appropriate for each particular product. These techniques involve some degree of judgment.
For investments in illiquid or privately held securities that do not have readily determinable fair values, the determination of fair value requires us to estimate the value of the securities using the best information available. Among the factors we consider in determining the fair value of investments are the cost of the investment, terms and liquidity, developments since the acquisition of the investment, the sales price of recently issued securities, the financial condition and operating results of the issuer, earnings trends and consistency of operating cash flows, the long-term business potential of the issuer, the quoted market price of securities with similar quality and yield that are publicly traded, and other factors generally pertinent to the valuation of investments. In instances where a security is subject to transfer restrictions, the value of the security is based primarily on the quoted price of a similar security without restriction but may be reduced by an amount estimated to reflect such restrictions. The fair value of these investments is subject to a high degree of volatility and may be susceptible to significant fluctuation in the near term, and the differences could be material.
The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates to the level of pricing observability. Pricing observability is impacted by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established, and the characteristics specific to the transaction. Financial instruments with readily available active quoted prices for which fair value can be measured from actively quoted prices generally will have a higher degree of pricing observability and a lesser degree of judgment used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments rarely traded or not quoted will generally have less, or no, pricing observability and a higher degree of judgment used in measuring fair value. See Note 5 for additional information on how we value our financial instruments.
Available-for-Sale and Held-to-Maturity Securities
Securities available for sale, which are carried at fair value, include U.S. government agency securities; state and municipal securities; agency, non-agency, and commercial mortgage-backed securities; corporate fixed income securities; and asset-backed securities, which primarily includes collateralized loan obligations.
Securities held to maturity are recorded at amortized cost based on our company’s positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. Securities held to maturity include asset-backed securities, consisting of collateralized loan obligation securities and student loan ARS.
We evaluate each available-for-sale security where the value has declined below amortized cost. If our company intends to sell or believes it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell the debt security, it is written down to fair value through earnings. For available-for-sale debt securities our company intends to hold, we evaluate the debt securities for expected credit losses except for debt securities that are guaranteed by the U.S. Treasury or U.S. government agencies where we apply a zero credit loss assumption.
For the remaining available-for-sale debt securities, we consider qualitative parameters such as internal and external credit ratings and the value of underlying collateral. If an available-for-sale debt security fails any of the qualitative parameters, a discounted cash flow analysis is used by our company to determine if a portion of the unrealized loss is a result of a credit loss. Any credit losses determined are recognized as an increase to the allowance for credit losses through provision expense recorded in the consolidated statement of operations in provision for credit losses. Cash flows expected to be collected are estimated using all relevant information
available, such as remaining payment terms, prepayment speeds, the financial condition of the issuer, expected defaults, and the value of the underlying collateral. If any of the decline in fair value is related to market factors, that amount is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income. In certain instances, the credit loss may exceed the total decline in fair value, in which case, the allowance recorded is limited to the difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the asset. We separately evaluate our held-to-maturity debt securities for any credit losses. We perform a discounted cash flow analysis to estimate any credit losses, which are then recognized as part of the allowance for credit losses. For available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities, we have established a nonaccrual policy that results in timely write-off of accrued interest. See Note 7 for more information.
Unrealized gains and losses on our available-for-sale securities are reported, net of taxes, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) included in shareholders’ equity. Amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts are recorded as interest income in the consolidated statements of operations using the interest method. Realized gains and losses from sales of securities available for sale are determined on a specific identification basis and are included in other income in the consolidated statements of operations in the period they are sold. For securities transferred from available-for-sale to held-to-maturity, carrying value also includes unrealized gains and losses recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) at the date of transfer. Such unrealized gains or losses are accreted over the remaining life of the security with no impact on future net income.
Loan Classification
We classify loans based on our investment strategy and management’s assessment of our intent and ability to hold loans for the foreseeable future or until maturity. Management’s intent and ability with respect to certain loans may change from time to time depending on a number of factors, including economic, liquidity, and capital conditions. The accounting and measurement framework for loans differs depending on the loan classification. The classification criteria and accounting and measurement framework for bank loans and loans held for sale are described below.
Bank Loans
Bank loans consist of commercial and residential mortgage loans, commercial and industrial loans, stock-secured loans, home equity loans, construction loans, and consumer loans originated or acquired by Stifel Bancorp. Bank loans include those loans that management has the intent and ability to hold and are recorded at outstanding principal adjusted for any charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, deferred origination fees and costs, and purchased discounts. Loan origination costs, net of fees, and premiums and discounts on purchased loans are deferred and recognized over the contractual life of the loan as an adjustment of yield using the interest method. Bank loans are generally collateralized by real estate, real property, marketable securities, or other assets of the borrower. Interest income is recognized using the effective interest rate method, which is based upon the respective interest rates and the average daily asset balance. Discount accretion/premium amortization is recognized using the effective interest rate method, which is based upon the respective interest rate and expected lives of loans.
Allowance for Credit Losses
On January 1, 2020, we adopted the new accounting standard that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the Company’s relevant financial assets.
The expected credit losses on our loan portfolio are referred to as the allowance for loan losses and are reported separately as a contra-asset to loans on the consolidated statement of financial condition. The expected credit losses for unfunded lending commitments, including standby letters of credit and binding unfunded loan commitments, are reported on the consolidated statement of financial condition in accounts payable and accrued expenses. The provision for loan losses related to the loan portfolio and the provision for unfunded lending commitments are reported in the consolidated statement of operations in provision for credit losses.
For loans, the expected credit loss is typically estimated using quantitative methods that consider a variety of factors, such as historical loss experience derived from proxy data, the current credit quality of the portfolio, as well as an economic outlook over the life of the loan. The life of the loan for closed-ended products is based on the contractual maturity of the loan adjusted for any expected prepayments. The contractual maturity includes any extension options that are at the sole discretion of the borrower. For open-ended products, the expected credit loss is determined based on the maximum repayment term associated with future draws from credit lines.
In our loss forecasting framework, we incorporate forward-looking information through the use of macroeconomic scenarios applied over the forecasted life of the assets. These macroeconomic scenarios include variables that have historically been key drivers of increases and decreases in credit losses. These variables include, but are not limited to, unemployment rates, real estate prices, gross domestic product levels, corporate bond spreads, and long-term interest rate forecasts. To estimate losses for contractual periods that extend beyond the forecast horizon, we revert to an average historical loss experience. As any one economic outlook is inherently uncertain, we leverage multiple scenarios. The scenarios that are chosen each quarter and the amount of weighting given to each scenario depend on a variety of factors, including recent economic events, leading economic indicators, and industry trends. The reserve for unfunded lending commitments is estimated using the same scenarios, models, and economic data as the loan portfolio.
The allowance for loan losses includes adjustments for qualitative reserves based on our company’s assessment that may not be adequately represented in the quantitative methods or the economic assumptions described above. For example, factors that we consider include changes in lending policies and procedures, business conditions, the nature and size of the portfolio, portfolio concentrations, the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory requirements, among others. Further, we consider the inherent uncertainty in quantitative models that are built on historical data. As a result of the uncertainty inherent in the quantitative models, other quantitative and qualitative factors are considered in adjusting allowance amounts, including, but not limited to, the following: model imprecision, imprecision in macroeconomic scenario forecasts, or changes in the economic environment affecting specific portfolio segments that deviate from the macroeconomic forecasts. The evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. Depending on changes in circumstances, future assessments of credit risk may yield materially different results from the prior estimates, which may require an increase or a decrease in the allowance for loan losses.
The allowance for credit losses can also be impacted by unanticipated changes in asset quality of the portfolio. In addition, while we have incorporated our estimated impact of the coronavirus (“COVID-19”) pandemic on the economy into our allowance for credit losses, the ultimate impact of COVID-19 is still unknown, including how long economic activities will be impacted and what effect the unprecedented levels of government fiscal and monetary actions will have on the economy and our credit losses.
Loans Held for Sale
Loans that we intend to sell or for which we do not have the ability and intent to hold for the foreseeable future are classified as held for sale. Loans held for sale consist of fixed-rate and adjustable-rate residential and multi-family real estate mortgage loans intended for sale. Loans held for sale are stated at lower of cost or market value on an individual loan basis. Declines in market value below cost and any gains or losses on the sale of these assets are recognized in other income in the consolidated statements of operations. Market value is determined based on prevailing market prices for loans with similar characteristics or on sale contract prices. Deferred fees and costs related to these loans are not amortized but are recognized as part of the cost basis of the loan at the time it is sold. Because loans held for sale are reported at lower of cost or market value, an allowance for loan losses is not established for loans held for sale.
Impaired Loans
A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement will not be collectible. Factors considered in determining impairment include payment status, collateral value, and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. We determine the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower's prior payment record, and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed.
We consider a loan a trouble debt restructuring when an existing borrower is granted concessionary rates or terms, which would not otherwise be offered. The concessions granted do not reflect current market conditions for a new loan of similar risk to another borrower in similar financial circumstances.
Once a loan is determined to be impaired, when principal or interest becomes 90 days past due or when collection becomes uncertain, the accrual of interest and amortization of deferred loan origination fees is discontinued (“non-accrual status”) and any accrued and unpaid interest income is reversed. Loans placed on non-accrual status are returned to accrual status when all delinquent principal and interest payments are collected and the collectibility of future principal and interest payments is reasonably assured. Loan losses are charged against the allowance for loan losses when we believe the uncollectibility of a loan balance is certain. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance for loan losses.
We do not include reserves for interest receivable in the measurement of the allowance for credit losses, as we generally classify loans as nonperforming at 90 days past due and reverse interest income for these loans at that time.
Large groups of smaller balance homogenous loans are collectively evaluated for impairment. Accordingly, we do not separately identify individual consumer and residential loans for impairment measurements. Impairment is measured on a loan-by-loan basis for non-homogeneous loans, and a specific allowance is established for individual loans determined to be impaired. Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying value of the impaired loan to the present value of its expected cash flow discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, the loan’s observable market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. See Note 8 for more information.
Investments
Our broker-dealer subsidiaries report changes in fair value of marketable and non-marketable securities in other income in the consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of marketable investments is generally based on either quoted market or dealer prices. The fair value of non-marketable securities is based on management’s estimate using the best information available, which generally consists of quoted market prices for similar securities and internally developed discounted cash flow models.
Investments in the consolidated statements of financial condition contain investments in securities that are marketable and securities that are not readily marketable. These investments are not included in our broker-dealer trading inventory or available-for-sale or held-to-maturity portfolios and represent the acquiring and disposing of debt or equity instruments for our benefit.
Fixed Assets, Net
Office equipment is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset of two to seven years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or the term of the lease. Buildings and building improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset of three to thirty-nine years. Depreciation expense is recorded in occupancy and equipment rental in the consolidated statements of operations. Office equipment and leasehold improvements are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and amortization in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Fixed assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable.
Aircraft Engines Held for Operating Lease
Aircraft engines held for operating lease are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and are included in fixed assets, net in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Certain costs incurred in connection with the acquisition of aircraft engines are capitalized as part of the cost of such assets. Major overhauls paid for by our company, which improve functionality or extend the original useful life, are capitalized and depreciated over the shorter of the estimated period to the next overhaul (“deferral method”) or the remaining useful life of the equipment. We do not accrue for planned major maintenance. The cost of overhauls of aircraft engines under long-term leases, for which the lessee is responsible for maintenance during the period of the lease, are paid for by the lessee or from reimbursable maintenance reserves paid to our company in accordance with the lease, and are not capitalized.
We depreciate aircraft engines on a straight-line basis over a 30-year period from the acquisition date to a 15% residual value. We review the useful life and residual values of all engines periodically as demand changes to accurately depreciate the cost of equipment over the useful life of the engines.
Goodwill and Intangible Assets
Goodwill represents the cost of acquired businesses in excess of the fair value of the related net assets acquired. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and on an interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. We test for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally at the level of or one level below our company’s business segments. For both the annual and interim tests, we have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, we determine it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then performing the two-step impairment test is not required. However, if we conclude otherwise, we are then required to perform the first step of the two-step impairment test. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective carrying value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the carrying value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below carrying value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of the impairment. Additionally, if the carrying value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more likely than not the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are derived based on valuation techniques we believe market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The Company performed impairment testing on October 1, 2020 with no impairment charges resulting from the annual impairment tests.
Identifiable intangible assets, which are amortized over their estimated useful lives, are tested for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that the carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be fully recoverable.
Loans and Advances to Financial Advisors and Other Employees, Net
We offer transition pay, principally in the form of upfront loans, to financial advisors and certain key revenue producers as part of our company’s overall growth strategy. These loans are generally forgiven by a charge to compensation and benefits over a five- to ten-year period if the individual satisfies certain conditions, usually based on continued employment and certain performance standards. We monitor and compare individual financial advisor production to each loan issued to ensure future recoverability. In the event that the financial advisor is no longer affiliated with us, any unpaid balance of such loan becomes immediately due and payable to us. In determining the allowance for doubtful accounts related to former employees, management primarily considers our historical collection experience as well as other factors, including amounts due at termination, the reasons for the terminated relationship, and the former financial advisor’s overall financial position. When the review of these factors indicates that further collection activity is highly unlikely, the outstanding balance of such loan is written-off and the corresponding allowance is reduced. The aging of this receivable balance is not a determinative factor in computing our allowance for doubtful accounts, as concerns regarding the recoverability of these loans primarily arise in the event that the financial advisor is no longer affiliated with us. We present the outstanding balance of loans to financial advisors on our consolidated statements of financial condition, net of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Our allowance for doubtful accounts was approximately $18.7 million and $14.3 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
We recognize all of our derivative instruments at fair value as either assets or liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial condition. These instruments are recorded in other assets or accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated statements of financial condition and in the operating section of the consolidated statements of cash flows as increases or decreases of other assets and accounts payable and accrued expenses. Our company’s policy is not to offset fair value amounts recognized for derivative instruments and fair value amounts recognized for the right to reclaim cash collateral or the obligation to return cash collateral arising from derivative instruments recognized at fair value executed with the same counterparty under master netting arrangements. The accounting for changes in the fair value (i.e., gains and losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging relationship. For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, we must also designate the hedging instrument or transaction, based upon the exposure being hedged.
For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges (i.e., hedging the exposure to variability in expected future cash flows that is attributable to a particular risk), the effective portion of the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax, and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The remaining gain or loss on the derivative instrument in excess of the cumulative change in the present value of future cash flows of the hedged item, if any, is recognized in current earnings during the period of change.
Revenue Recognition
Customer securities transactions are recorded on a settlement date basis, with related commission revenues and expenses recorded on a trade date basis. Commission revenues are recorded as the amount charged to the customer, which, in certain cases, may include varying discounts. Principal securities transactions are recorded on a trade date basis. We typically distribute our proprietary equity research products to our client base of institutional investors at no charge. These proprietary equity research products are accounted for as a cost of doing business.
Advisory fees from mergers and acquisitions engagements are recognized at a point in time when the related transaction is completed, as the performance obligation is to successfully broker a specific transaction.
Advisory expenses are deferred only to the extent they are explicitly reimbursable by the client and the related revenue has been recognized. All other investment banking advisory related expenses, including expenses incurred related to restructuring assignments, are expensed as incurred.
Underwriting expenses are recognized as non-interest expense in other operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations, and any expense reimbursements are recognized as investment banking revenues (i.e., expenses are not netted against revenues).
Asset management and service fees. We earn management and performance fees in connection with investment advisory services provided to institutional and individual clients. Investment advisory fees are charged based on the value of assets in fee-based accounts and are affected by changes in the balances of client assets due to market fluctuations and levels of net new client assets. Fees are charged either in advance based on fixed rates applied to the value of the customers’ account at the beginning of the period or periodically based on contracted rates and account performance. Contracts can be terminated at any time with no incremental payments due to our company upon termination. If the contract is terminated by the customer fees are prorated for the period and fees charged for the post termination period are refundable to the customer.
We earn fees from the investment partnerships that we manage or of which we are a general partner. Such management fees are generally based on the net assets or committed capital of the underlying partnerships. We have agreed, in certain cases, to waive management fees, in lieu of making a cash contribution, in satisfaction of our general partner investment commitments to the investment partnerships. In these cases, we generally recognize our management fee revenues at the time when we are allocated a special profit interest in realized gains from these partnerships.
Lease revenue - Revenue from leasing of aircraft engines is recognized as operating lease revenue on a straight-line basis over the terms of the applicable lease agreements. Under the terms of some of our company’s leases, the lessees pay use fees (also known as maintenance reserves) to our company based on usage of the leased asset, which are designed to cover expected future maintenance costs. Some of these amounts are reimbursable to the lessee if they make specifically defined maintenance expenditures. Use fees received are recognized in revenue as maintenance reserve revenue if they are not reimbursable to the lessee. Use fees that are reimbursable are recorded as a maintenance reserve liability until they are reimbursed to the lessee, the lease terminates, or the obligation to reimburse the lessee for such reserves ceases to exist, at which time they are recognized in revenue as maintenance reserve revenue.
Operating Leases
Our company enters into operating leases for real estate, office equipment, and other assets, substantially all of which are used in connection with its operations. We adopted ASU 2016-02 on January 1, 2019, which required our company to recognize, for leases longer than one year, a right-of-use asset representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability representing the liability to make payments. The lease term is generally determined based on the contractual maturity of the lease. For leases where our company has the option to terminate or extend the lease, an assessment of the likelihood of exercising the option is incorporated into the determination of the lease term. Such assessment is initially performed at the inception of the lease and is updated if events occur that impact the original assessment.
An operating lease right-of-use asset is initially determined based on the operating lease liability, adjusted for initial direct costs, lease incentives, and amounts paid at or prior to lease commencement. This amount is then amortized over the lease term. At December 31, 2020, the right-of-use assets are included in fixed assets, net with the corresponding lease liabilities included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated statements of financial condition. See Note 19 for information about operating leases.
For leases where our company ceased using the space and management has concluded that it will not derive any future economic benefits, we record an impairment of right-of-use assets.
Income Taxes
We compute income taxes using the asset and liability method, under which deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of our company’s assets and liabilities. We establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that these items will either expire before we are able to realize their benefits, or that future deductibility is uncertain.
We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. See Note 24 for further information regarding income taxes.
Foreign Currency Translation
We consolidate our foreign subsidiaries, which have designated their local currency as their functional currency. Assets and liabilities of these foreign subsidiaries are translated at year-end rates of exchange. Revenues and expenses are translated at an average rate for the period. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss), a separate component of Stifel Financial Corp. shareholders’ equity. Gains or losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in other income in the consolidated statements of operations.
Recently Issued Accounting Guidance
Income Taxes
In December 2019, the FASB issued ASU 2019-12, “Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes,” which is intended to simplify various aspects related to accounting for income taxes. This accounting update removes certain exceptions to the general principles in Topic 740 and also clarifies and amends existing guidance to improve consistent application. The accounting update is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020 (January 1, 2021, for our company), and early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact that the accounting update will have on our consolidated financial statements.
Recently Adopted Accounting Guidance
Goodwill Impairment Testing
On January 1, 2020, we adopted ASU 2017-04, which simplifies the subsequent measurement of goodwill and eliminates Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Under the accounting update, the annual, or interim, goodwill impairment test is performed by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, and an impairment charge should be recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The adoption of the accounting update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The future impact of the accounting update will depend upon the performance of our reporting units and the market conditions impacting the fair value of each reporting unit going forward.
Financial Instruments - Credit Losses
On January 1, 2020, we adopted ASU 2016-13 that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in the Company’s relevant financial assets. Upon adoption of the standard on January 1, 2020, we recorded a $10.4 million increase to the allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses includes both the allowance for loan losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments and represents management’s estimate of the expected credit losses in our company’s loan portfolio. The increase in the allowance is driven by the fact that the allowance under the CECL model covers expected credit losses over the full expected life of the loan portfolios and also takes into account forecasts of expected future economic conditions. The cumulative effect of adopting this standard was a decrease to retained earnings of $7.8 million (net of tax).
Reference Rate Reform
In March 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-04, “Reference Rate Reform - Facilitation of the Effects of Reference Rate Reform on Financial Reporting.” The accounting standard related to contracts or hedging relationships that reference LIBOR or other reference rates that are expected to be discontinued due to reference rate reform. The accounting standard provides for optional expedients and other guidance regarding the accounting related to modifications of contracts, hedging relationships, and other transactions affected by reference rate reform. We elected to retrospectively adopt the new standard as of January 1, 2020, which resulted in no immediate impact. While reference rate reform did not have a material accounting impact on our consolidated financial statements, the new standard eased the administrative burden in accounting for the future effects of reference rate reform.
Fair Value Measurement
In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Disclosure Framework - Changes to the Disclosure Requirements for Fair Value Measurement. The objective of this guidance is to improve the effectiveness of disclosure requirements on fair value measurement by eliminating certain disclosure requirements for fair value measurements for all entities, requiring public entities to disclose certain new information and modifying some disclosure requirements. The accounting update is effective for the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2019 (January 1, 2020, for our company), and early adoption is permitted. We early adopted the guidance in the update on January 1, 2019. The adoption of the accounting update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
Derivatives and Hedging
In August 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-12, “Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities” (“ASU 2017-12”), which amends the hedge accounting recognition and presentation requirements. The accounting update improves the transparency and understandability of information conveyed to financial statement users by better aligning companies’ hedging relationship to their existing risk management strategies, simplifies the application of hedge accounting, and increases transparency regarding the scope and results of hedging program. The accounting update is effective for the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2018 (January 1, 2019, for our company), and early adoption is permitted. The adoption of the accounting update did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
In April 2019, the FASB issued ASU No. 2019-04, “Codification Improvements to Topic 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and Topic 825, Financial Instruments,” which clarifies and improves areas of guidance related to the recently issued standards on credit losses, hedging, recognition, and measurement.
The accounting update clarifies that the reclassification of a debt security from held-to-maturity to available-for-sale under the transition guidance in ASU 2017-12 would not (1) call into question the classification of other held-to-maturity securities, (2) be required to actually designate any reclassified security in a last-of-layer hedge, or (3) be restricted from selling any reclassified security. The accounting update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019 (January 1, 2020, for our company), and early adoption is permitted. We early adopted the provisions of the accounting update related to Topic 815 on August 1, 2019. As a result of the adoption of the accounting update, we made a one-time decision to transfer a portion of our held-to-maturity securities to available-for-sale. The adoption of the accounting guidance had no other impact on our consolidated financial statements. See Note 7 for further information.
Callable debt securities
In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-08, “Receivables - Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs (Subtopic 310-20): Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities,” which shortens the amortization period for the premium on certain callable debt securities to the earliest call date. The amendments are applicable to any purchased individual debt security with an explicit and non-contingent call feature that is callable at a fixed price on a preset date. The accounting update is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 (January 1, 2019, for our company) under a modified retrospective approach. The change was applied prospectively from January 1, 2019, and there is no impact to our previously presented results. The adoption of the accounting update resulted in a reduction of beginning retained earnings of $4.4 million after-tax as a cumulative effect of adoption of an accounting change.
Leases
In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, which requires that for leases longer than one year, a lessee recognize in the statements of financial condition a right-of-use asset, representing the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term, and a lease liability, representing the liability to make lease payments. The accounting update also requires that for finance leases, a lessee recognize interest expense on the lease liability, separately from the amortization of the right-of-use asset in the statements of earnings, while for operating leases, such amounts should be recognized as a combined expense. In addition, this accounting update requires expanded disclosures about the nature and terms of lease agreements.
This change was applied prospectively from January 1, 2019, and there is no impact on our previously presented results. Upon adoption, in accordance with the new lease standard, we elected to not reassess the lease classification or initial direct costs of existing leases, and to not reassess whether existing contracts contain a lease. In addition, we have elected to account for each contract’s lease and non-lease components as a single lease component. The adoption of the new lease standard resulted in a reduction of beginning retained earnings of $6.7 million after-tax as a cumulative effect of adoption of an accounting change. Upon adoption, the company recorded a gross up of approximately $670 million on its consolidated statements of financial condition to recognize the right-of-use assets, included in fixed assets, net and lease liabilities, included in accounts payable and accrued expenses. See Note 9 for further information.
Comprehensive Income
In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-02, “Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reclassification of Certain Tax Effects from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income” that provides for the reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017. The accounting update is effective for the fiscal year beginning after December 15, 2018 (January 1, 2019, for our company) and early adoption is permitted. We early adopted the guidance in the update on January 1, 2018. The adoption of the accounting update resulted in a reclassification adjustment of $3.1 million related to cash flow hedges and investment portfolio credit risk in our consolidated financial statements.
NOTE 3 - Acquisitions
GMP Capital Inc.
On December 6, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of substantially all of the capital markets business of GMP Capital Inc. (“GMP”), an independent investment banking franchise based in Canada that offers investment banking services, including equity capital-raising, mergers and acquisitions, institutional sales and trading, and research services to corporate clients and institutional investors. The acquisition was funded with cash from operations.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805 (“ASC Topic 805”), “Business Combinations.” Accordingly, goodwill was measured as the excess of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred over the amount of acquisition-date identifiable assets acquired net of assumed liabilities. We recorded $20.0 million of goodwill in the consolidated statement of financial condition, which has been allocated to our company’s Institutional Group segment. Identifiable intangible assets purchased by our company consisted of customer relationships, non-compete agreements, and tradename with an acquisition-date fair value of $10.7 million.
The goodwill represents the value expected from the synergies created through the operational enhancement benefits that will result from the integration of the GMP business and its expertise in the investment banking business. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for federal income tax purposes.
Pro forma information is not presented because the acquisition is not considered to be material, as defined by the SEC. The results of operations of GMP have been included in our results prospectively from the date of acquisition.
MainFirst
On November 1, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of MainFirst Bank AG (“MainFirst”), an investment bank that offers equity brokerage and equity capital markets services to institutions and corporations in key European markets. The acquisition was funded with cash from operations.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805 (“ASC Topic 805”), “Business Combinations.” Accordingly, goodwill was measured as the excess of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred over the amount of acquisition-date identifiable assets acquired net of assumed liabilities. We recorded $15.7 million of goodwill in the consolidated statement of financial condition, which has been allocated to our company’s Institutional Group segment. Identifiable intangible assets purchased by our company consisted of tradename, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships with an acquisition-date fair value of $0.8 million.
The goodwill represents the value expected from the synergies created through the operational enhancement benefits that will result from the integration of the MainFirst business. Goodwill will not be deductible for federal income tax purposes.
Pro forma information is not presented because the acquisition is not considered to be material, as defined by the SEC. The results of operations of MainFirst have been included in our results prospectively from the date of acquisition.
George K. Baum & Company
On September 27, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of certain assets of George K. Baum & Company (“GKB”), a privately held investment banking firm focused on public finance and taxable fixed income sales and trading. The acquisition was funded with cash from operations.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805 (“ASC Topic 805”), “Business Combinations.” Accordingly, goodwill was measured as the excess of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred over the amount of acquisition-date identifiable assets acquired net of assumed liabilities. We recorded $33.3 million of goodwill in the consolidated statement of financial condition, which has been allocated to our company’s Institutional Group segment. Identifiable intangible assets purchased by our company consisted of non-compete agreements and customer relationships with an acquisition-date fair value of $15.2 million.
The goodwill represents the value expected from the synergies created through the operational enhancement benefits that will result from the integration of the GKB business and its expertise in the investment banking business. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for federal income tax purposes.
Pro forma information is not presented because the acquisition is not considered to be material, as defined by the SEC. The results of operations of GKB have been included in our results prospectively from the date of acquisition.
B&F Capital Markets, Inc.
On September 3, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of B&F Capital Markets, Inc. (“B&F”), a privately held firm focused on providing regional and community banks throughout the United States with interest rate derivative programs through a combination of experienced professionals and proprietary software. The acquisition was funded with cash from operations.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805 (“ASC Topic 805”), “Business Combinations.” Accordingly, goodwill was measured as the excess of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred over the amount of acquisition-date identifiable assets acquired net of assumed liabilities. We recorded $23.0 million of goodwill in the consolidated statement of financial condition, which has been allocated to our company’s Institutional Group segment. Identifiable intangible assets purchased by our company consisted of tradename, non-compete agreements, and customer relationships with an acquisition-date fair value of $18.6 million.
The goodwill represents the value expected from the synergies created through the operational enhancement benefits that will result from the integration of the B&F business and its expertise in the interest rate derivate business. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for federal income tax purposes.
We recognized a liability for estimated earn-out payments. These payments will be based on the performance of B&F over a five-year period. The liability for earn-out payments was $16.0 million and $20.1 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The contingent consideration accrual is included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Pro forma information is not presented because the acquisition is not considered to be material, as defined by the SEC. The results of operations of B&F have been included in our results prospectively from the date of acquisition.
Mooreland Partners
On July 1, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of Mooreland Partners (“Mooreland”), an independent M&A and private capital advisory firm serving the global technology industry. The acquisition was funded with cash from operations.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805 (“ASC Topic 805”), “Business Combinations.” Accordingly, goodwill was measured as the excess of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred over the amount of acquisition-date identifiable assets acquired net of assumed liabilities. We recorded $45.8 million of goodwill in the consolidated statement of financial condition, which has been allocated to our company’s Institutional Group segment. Identifiable intangible assets purchased by our company consisted of non-compete agreements and backlog with an acquisition-date fair value of $5.1 million.
The goodwill represents the value expected from the synergies created through the operational enhancement benefits that will result from the integration of the Mooreland business and its expertise in the investment banking business. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for federal income tax purposes.
We recognized a liability for estimated earn-out payments. These payments will be based on the performance of Mooreland over a three-year period. The liability for earn-out payments was $13.0 million and $18.4 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The contingent consideration accrual is included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Pro forma information is not presented because the acquisition is not considered to be material, as defined by the SEC. The results of operations of Mooreland have been included in our results prospectively from the date of acquisition.
First Empire
On January 2, 2019, the Company completed the acquisition of First Empire Holding Corp. (“First Empire”) and its subsidiaries, including First Empire Securities, Inc., an institutional broker-dealer specializing in the fixed income markets. The acquisition was funded with cash from operations.
The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC 805 (“ASC Topic 805”), “Business Combinations.” Accordingly, goodwill was measured as the excess of the acquisition-date fair value of the consideration transferred over the amount of acquisition-date identifiable assets acquired net of assumed liabilities. We recorded $14.9 million of goodwill in the consolidated statement of financial condition, which has been allocated to our company’s Institutional Group segment. Identifiable intangible assets purchased by our company consisted of tradename and customer relationships with an acquisition-date fair value of $7.8 million.
The goodwill represents the value expected from the synergies created through the operational enhancement benefits that will result from the integration of the First Empire business and its expertise in the investment banking business. Goodwill is expected to be deductible for federal income tax purposes.
Pro forma information is not presented because the acquisition is not considered to be material, as defined by the SEC. The results of operations of First Empire have been included in our results prospectively from the date of acquisition.
NOTE 4 - Receivables From and Payables to Brokers, Dealers, and Clearing Organizations
Amounts receivable from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations at December 31, 2020 and 2019, included (in thousands):
Amounts payable to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations at December 31, 2020 and 2019, included (in thousands):
Deposits paid for securities borrowed approximate the market value of the securities. Securities failed to deliver and receive represent the contract value of securities that have not been delivered or received on settlement date.
NOTE 5 - Fair Value Measurements
We measure certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including financial instruments owned, available-for-sale securities, investments, financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, and derivatives.
We generally utilize third-party pricing services to value Level 1 and Level 2 available-for-sale investment securities, as well as certain derivatives designated as cash flow hedges. We review the methodologies and assumptions used by the third-party pricing services and evaluate the values provided, principally by comparison with other available market quotes for similar instruments and/or analysis based on internal models using available third-party market data. We may occasionally adjust certain values provided by the
third-party pricing service when we believe, as the result of our review, that the adjusted price most appropriately reflects the fair value of the particular security.
Following are descriptions of the valuation methodologies and key inputs used to measure financial assets and liabilities recorded at fair value. The descriptions include an indication of the level of the fair value hierarchy in which the assets or liabilities are classified.
Financial Instruments Owned and Available-For-Sale Securities
When available, the fair value of financial instruments is based on quoted prices in active markets and reported in Level 1. Level 1 financial instruments include highly liquid instruments with quoted prices, such as U.S. government securities, corporate fixed income securities, and equity securities listed in active markets.
If quoted prices are not available for identical instruments, fair values are obtained from pricing services, broker quotes, or other model-based valuation techniques with observable inputs, such as the present value of estimated cash flows, and reported as Level 2. The nature of these financial instruments include instruments for which quoted prices are available but traded less frequently, instruments whose fair value has been derived using a model where inputs to the model are directly observable in the market, or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data, and instruments that are fair valued using other financial instruments, the parameters of which can be directly observed. Level 2 financial instruments include U.S. government agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, corporate fixed income and equity securities infrequently traded, state and municipal securities, and other securities, which primarily consist of sovereign debt and asset-backed securities.
We have identified Level 3 financial instruments to include certain asset-backed securities and loans with unobservable pricing inputs, included in other in the table below. Level 3 financial instruments have little to no pricing observability as of the report date. These financial instruments do not have active two-way markets and are measured using management’s best estimate of fair value, where the inputs into the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation.
Investments
Investments carried at fair value primarily include corporate equity securities, auction-rate securities (“ARS”), private company investments, including our beneficial interest in North Shore, and investments in funds, including certain money market funds that are measured at net asset value (“NAV”).
Corporate equity securities are primarily valued based on quoted prices in active markets and reported in Level 1.
ARS are primarily valued based upon our expectations of issuer redemptions and using internal discounted cash flow models that utilize unobservable inputs. ARS are primarily reported as Level 3 assets. Private company investments are primarily valued based upon internally developed models. These valuations require significant management judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity, and their long-term nature. Typically, the initial costs of these investments are considered to represent fair market value, as such amounts are negotiated between willing market participants. The value of our beneficial interest in North Shore is based on a proprietary cash flow model. Private company investments are primarily reported as Level 3 assets.
The Company uses NAV to measure the fair value of its fund investments when (i) the fund investment does not have a readily determinable fair value and (ii) the NAV of the investment fund is calculated in a manner consistent with the measurement principles of investment company accounting, including measurement of the underlying investments at fair value.
The Company’s investments in funds measured at NAV include money market funds, mutual funds, partnership interests, and private equity funds. Private equity funds primarily invest in a broad range of industries worldwide in a variety of situations, including leveraged buyouts, recapitalizations, growth investments, and distressed investments. The private equity funds are primarily closed-end funds in which the Company’s investments are generally not eligible for redemption. Distributions will be received from these funds as the underlying assets are liquidated or distributed.
The general and limited partnership interests in investment partnerships were primarily valued based upon NAVs received from third-party fund managers. The various partnerships are investment companies, which record their underlying investments at fair value based on fair value policies established by management of the underlying fund. Fair value policies at the underlying fund generally require the funds to utilize pricing/valuation information, including independent appraisals, from third-party sources. However, in some instances, current valuation information for illiquid securities or securities in markets that are not active may not be available from any third-party source or fund management may conclude that the valuations that are available from third-party sources are not reliable. In these instances, fund management may perform model-based analytical valuations that may be used as an input to value these investments.
The table below presents the fair value of our investments in, and unfunded commitments to, funds that are measured at NAV (in thousands):
Financial Instruments Sold, But Not Yet Purchased
Financial instruments sold, but not purchased, recorded at fair value based on quoted prices in active markets and other observable market data include highly liquid instruments with quoted prices, such as U.S. government securities, equity securities, and fixed income securities listed in active markets, which are reported as Level 1.
If quoted prices are not available, fair values are obtained from pricing services, broker quotes, or other model-based valuation techniques with observable inputs, such as the present value of estimated cash flows, and reported as Level 2. The nature of these financial instruments include instruments for which quoted prices are available but traded less frequently, instruments whose fair value has been derived using a model where inputs to the model are directly observable in the market, or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data, and instruments that are fair valued using other financial instruments, the parameters of which can be directly observed. Level 2 financial instruments include agency mortgage-backed securities, corporate fixed income securities infrequently traded, and other securities, which primarily consist of sovereign debt, U.S. government agency securities, loans, and state and municipal securities.
Derivatives
Derivatives are valued using quoted market prices for identical instruments when available or pricing models based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows. The valuation models used require market observable inputs, including contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, credit curves, and measures of volatility. We manage credit risk for our derivative positions on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis and calculate credit valuation adjustments, included in the fair value of these instruments, on the basis of our relationships at the counterparty portfolio/master netting agreement level. These credit valuation adjustments are determined by applying a credit spread for the counterparty to the total expected exposure of the derivative after considering collateral and other master netting arrangements. We have classified our interest rate swaps as Level 2.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2020, are presented below (in thousands):
(1)
Includes loans, asset-backed securities, sovereign debt, and non-agency mortgage-backed securities.
(2)
Includes sovereign debt and state and municipal securities.
Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2019, are presented below (in thousands):
(1)
Includes loans, asset-backed securities, sovereign debt, and non-agency mortgage-backed securities.
(2)
Included in other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
(2)
Includes sovereign debt, U.S. government agency securities, and loans.
The following table summarizes the changes in fair value associated with Level 3 financial instruments during the year ended December 31, 2020 (in thousands):
(1)
Realized and unrealized losses related to financial instruments owned and investments are reported in other income in the consolidated statements of operations.
The following table summarizes the changes in fair value associated with Level 3 financial instruments during the year ended December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
(1)
Realized and unrealized gains/(losses) related to financial instruments owned and investments are reported in other income in the consolidated statements of operations.
The results included in the tables above are only a component of the overall investment strategies of our company. The tables above do not present Level 1 or Level 2 valued assets or liabilities. The changes in unrealized gains/(losses) recorded in earnings for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, relating to Level 3 assets still held at December 31, 2020, were immaterial.
The fair value of certain Level 3 assets was determined using various methodologies, as appropriate, including third-party pricing vendors and broker quotes. These inputs are evaluated for reasonableness through various procedures, including due diligence reviews of third-party pricing vendors, variance analyses, consideration of current market environment, and other analytical procedures.
The fair value for our auction rate securities was determined using an income approach based on an internally developed discounted cash flow model. The discounted cash flow model utilizes two significant unobservable inputs: discount rate and workout period. Significant increases in any of these inputs in isolation would result in a significantly lower fair value. On an ongoing basis, management verifies the fair value by reviewing the appropriateness of the discounted cash flow model and its significant inputs.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The following reflects the fair value of financial instruments as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, whether or not recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value (in thousands).
(1)
Included in other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
The following tables present the estimated fair values of financial instruments not measured at fair value on a recurring basis for the periods indicated (in thousands):
The following, as supplemented by the discussion above, describes the valuation techniques used in estimating the fair value of our financial instruments as of December 31, 2020 and 2019.
Financial Assets
Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell
Securities purchased under agreements to resell are collateralized financing transactions that are recorded at their contractual amounts plus accrued interest. The carrying values at December 31, 2020 and 2019 approximate fair value due to their short-term nature.
Held-to-Maturity Securities
Securities held to maturity are recorded at amortized cost based on our company’s positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. Securities held to maturity include asset-backed securities, consisting of collateralized loan obligation securities and student loan ARS. The estimated fair value, included in the above table, is determined using several factors; however, primary weight is given to discounted cash flow modeling techniques that incorporated an estimated discount rate based upon recent observable debt security issuances with similar characteristics.
Loans Held for Sale
Loans held for sale consist of fixed-rate and adjustable-rate residential real estate mortgage loans intended for sale. Loans held for sale are stated at lower of cost or market value. Market value is determined based on prevailing market prices for loans with similar characteristics or on sale contract prices.
Bank Loans
The fair values of mortgage loans and commercial loans were estimated using a discounted cash flow method, a form of the income approach. Discount rates were determined considering rates at which similar portfolios of loans, with similar remaining maturities, would be made and considering liquidity spreads applicable to each loan portfolio based on the secondary market.
Financial Liabilities
Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized financing transactions that are recorded at their contractual amounts plus accrued interest. The carrying values at December 31, 2020 and 2019 approximate fair value due to the short-term nature.
Bank Deposits
The fair value of interest-bearing deposits, including certificates of deposits, demand deposits, savings, and checking accounts, was calculated by discounting the future cash flows using discount rates based on the replacement cost of funding of similar structures and terms.
Federal Home Loan Bank Advances
Federal Home Loan Bank advances reflect terms that approximate current market rates for similar borrowings.
Senior Notes
The fair value of our senior notes is estimated based upon quoted market prices.
Debentures to Stifel Financial Capital Trusts
The fair value of our trust preferred securities is based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. We have assumed a discount rate based on similar type debt instruments.
These fair value disclosures represent our best estimates based on relevant market information and information about the financial instruments. Fair value estimates are based on judgments regarding future expected losses, current economic conditions, risk characteristics of the various instruments, and other factors. These estimates are subjective in nature and involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment and, therefore, cannot be determined with precision. Changes in the above methodologies and assumptions could significantly affect the estimates.
NOTE 6 - Financial Instruments Owned and Financial Instruments Sold, But Not Yet Purchased
The components of financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at December 31, 2020 and 2019, are as follows (in thousands):
(1)
Includes loans, asset-backed securities, sovereign debt, and non-agency mortgage-backed securities.
(2)
Includes sovereign debt, U.S. government agency securities, loans, and state and municipal securities.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, financial instruments owned in the amount of $194.0 million and $511.2 million, respectively, were pledged as collateral for our repurchase agreements and short-term borrowings. Our financial instruments owned are presented on a trade-date basis in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, represent obligations of our company to deliver the specified security at the contracted price, thereby creating a liability to purchase the security in the market at prevailing prices in future periods. We are obligated to acquire the securities sold short at prevailing market prices in future periods, which may exceed the amount reflected in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
NOTE 7 - Available-for-Sale and Held-to-Maturity Securities
The following tables provide a summary of the amortized cost and fair values of the available-for-sale securities and held-to-maturity securities at December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
(1)
Unrealized gains/(losses) related to available-for-sale securities are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss).
(2)
Held-to-maturity securities are carried in the consolidated statements of financial condition at amortized cost, and the changes in the value of these securities, other than impairment charges, are not reported on the consolidated financial statements.
Effective January 1, 2020, we adopted the new accounting standard for credit losses that requires evaluation of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt securities for any expected losses with recognition of an allowance for credit losses, when applicable. For more information, see Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. At December 31, 2020, we did not have an allowance for credit losses recorded on our investment portfolio.
Accrued interest receivable for our investment portfolio at December 31, 2020, was $26.0 million and is reported in other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition. We do not include reserves for interest receivable in the measurement of the allowance for credit losses.
For the year ended December 31, 2020, we received proceeds of $491.9 million from the sale of available-for-sale securities, which resulted in a realized loss of $0.5 million. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we received proceeds of $641.8 million from the sale of available-for-sale securities, which resulted in a realized loss of $0.3 million. For the year ended December 31, 2018, we received proceeds of $372.4 million from the sale of available-for-sale securities, which resulted in a realized loss of $3.9 million.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company transferred $1.0 billion of certain asset-backed securities from the available-for-sale category to held-to-maturity. Management determined that it has both the positive intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity. The reclassification of these securities was accounted for at fair value. There were no gains or losses recognized as a result of these transfers.
During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company transferred certain asset-backed securities from the held-to-maturity category to available-for sale. At the date of transfer, the securities reclassified had a fair value of $1.1 billion and resulted in a net of tax increase to other comprehensive income of $17.9 million.
During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, unrealized gains, net of deferred taxes, of $33.1 million and $42.4 million, respectively, were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in the consolidated statements of financial condition. During the year ended December 31, 2018, unrealized losses, net of deferred taxes, of $36.3 million were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
The table below summarizes the amortized cost and fair values of our securities by contractual maturity (in thousands). Expected maturities may differ significantly from contractual maturities, as issuers may have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment penalties.
The maturities of our available-for-sale (fair value) and held-to-maturity (amortized cost) securities at December 31, 2020, are as follows (in thousands):
(1)
Due to the immaterial amount of income recognized on tax-exempt securities, yields were not calculated on a tax-equivalent basis.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, securities of $368.4 million and $801.5 million, respectively, were pledged at the Federal Home Loan Bank as collateral for borrowings and letters of credit obtained to secure public deposits. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, securities of $1.4 billion and $816.1 million, respectively, were pledged with the Federal Reserve discount window.
The following table shows the gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Company’s investment securities with unrealized losses, aggregated by investment category and length of time the individual investment securities have been in continuous unrealized loss positions, at December 31, 2020 (in thousands):
At December 31, 2020, the amortized cost of 40 securities classified as available for sale exceeded their fair value by $5.6 million, of which $3.4 million related to investment securities that had been in a loss position for 12 months or longer. The total fair value of these investments at December 31, 2020, was $524.1 million, which was 23.5% of our available-for-sale portfolio.
Credit Quality Indicators
The Company uses Moody credit ratings as the credit quality indicator for its held-to-maturity debt securities. Each security is evaluated at least quarterly. The indicators represent the rating for debt securities, as of the date presented, based on the most recent assessment performed. The following table shows the amortized cost of our held-to-maturity securities by credit quality indicator at December 31, 2020 (in thousands):
NOTE 8 - Bank Loans
The following table presents the balance and associated percentage of each major loan category in our bank loan portfolio at December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands, except percentages):
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, Stifel Bancorp had loans outstanding to its executive officers and directors and executive officers and directors of certain affiliated entities in the amount of $23.6 million and $24.5 million, respectively.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had loans held for sale of $551.2 million and $389.7 million, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, we recognized gains, included in other income in the consolidated statements of operations, of $41.2 million, $13.1 million, and $8.2 million, respectively, from the sale of originated loans, net of fees and costs.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, loans, primarily consisting of residential and commercial real estate loans of $3.8 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, were pledged at the Federal Home Loan Bank as collateral for borrowings.
Accrued interest receivable for loans and loans held for sale at December 31, 2020, was $20.8 million and is reported in other assets on the consolidated statement of financial condition.
The following table details activity in the allowance for loan losses by portfolio segment for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands).
On January 1, 2020, we adopted the new accounting standard that requires the measurement of the allowance for credit losses to be based on management’s best estimate of lifetime expected credit losses inherent in our company’s relevant financial assets. Upon adoption of the new accounting standard, we recorded a $10.4 million increase in the allowance for credit losses on January 1, 2020, which was comprised of a net increase to the allowance for loan losses and an adjustment to the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded $28.3 million of net credit loss reserves reflecting the impact of change in our company’s outlook on estimated lifetime expected credit losses under the CECL standard due to the COVID-19 pandemic. For more information on our company’s credit loss accounting policies, including the allowance for credit losses, see Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.
The following table presents the recorded balances of loans and amount of allowance allocated based upon impairment method by portfolio segment at December 31, 2020 (in thousands):
The following table presents the recorded balances of loans and amount of allowance allocated based upon impairment method by portfolio segment at December 31, 2019 (in thousands):
At December 31, 2020, we had $13.8 million of impaired loans, net of discounts, which included $0.2 million in troubled debt restructurings. The specific allowance on impaired loans at December 31, 2020, was $8.2 million. At December 31, 2019, we had $14.6 million of impaired loans, net of discounts, which included $0.2 million in troubled debt restructurings. The specific allowance on impaired loans at December 31, 2019, was $8.2 million. The gross interest income related to impaired loans, which would have been recorded had these loans been current in accordance with their original terms, and the interest income recognized on these loans during the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, were insignificant to the consolidated financial statements.
In March 2020, the President signed into law the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”), which among other things, provided optional, temporary relief from accounting for certain loan modifications as troubled debt restructurings (TDRs). Under the CARES Act, TDR relief is available to banks for loan modifications related to the adverse effects of the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic granted to borrowers that were current as of December 31, 2019. TDR relief applies to COVID-related modifications made from March 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020.
In December 2020, the U.S. federal government enacted the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2021, which provided additional COVID-19 relief to American families and business, including extending TDR relief under the CARES Act until the earlier of December 31, 2021, or 60 days following the termination of the national emergency. We elected to apply the TDR relief provided by the CARES Act in the second quarter of 2020.
The tables below present loans that were individually evaluated for impairment by portfolio segment at December 31, 2020 and 2019, including the average recorded investment balance (in thousands):
The following tables present the aging of the recorded investment in past due loans at December 31, 2020 and 2019, by portfolio segment (in thousands):
* There were no loans past due 90 days and still accruing interest at December 31, 2020.
* There were no loans past due 90 days and still accruing interest at December 31, 2019.
Credit quality indicators
As of December 31, 2020, bank loans were primarily extended to non-investment-grade borrowers. Substantially all of these loans align with the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies’ definition of Pass. Loans meet the definition of Pass when they are performing and/or do not demonstrate adverse characteristics that are likely to result in a credit loss. A loan is determined to be impaired when principal or interest becomes 90 days past due or when collection becomes uncertain. At the time a loan is determined to be impaired, the accrual of interest and amortization of deferred loan origination fees is discontinued (non-accrual status), and any accrued and unpaid interest income is reversed.
We closely monitor economic conditions and loan performance trends to manage and evaluate our exposure to credit risk. Trends in delinquency ratios are an indicator, among other considerations, of credit risk within our loan portfolios. The level of nonperforming assets represents another indicator of the potential for future credit losses. Accordingly, key metrics we track and use in evaluating the credit quality of our loan portfolio include delinquency and nonperforming asset rates, as well as charge-off rates and our internal risk ratings of the loan portfolio. In general, we are a secured lender. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, 98.8% and 98.3% of our loan portfolio was collateralized, respectively. Collateral is required in accordance with the normal credit evaluation process based upon the creditworthiness of the customer and the credit risk associated with the particular transaction. Our company uses the following definitions for risk ratings:
Pass. A credit exposure rated pass has a continued expectation of timely repayment, all obligations of the borrower are current, and the obligor complies with material terms and conditions of the lending agreement.
Special Mention. Extensions of credit that have potential weakness that deserve management’s close attention and, if left uncorrected, may, at some future date, result in the deterioration of the repayment prospects or collateral position.
Substandard. Obligor has a well-defined weakness that jeopardizes the repayment of the debt and has a high probability of payment default with the distinct possibility that we will sustain some loss if noted deficiencies are not corrected.
Doubtful. Inherent weakness in the exposure makes the collection or repayment in full, based on existing facts, conditions, and circumstances, highly improbable, and the amount of loss is uncertain.
Substandard loans are regularly reviewed for impairment. Doubtful loans are considered impaired. When a loan is impaired, the impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate, or as a practical expedient, the observable market price of the loan or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent.
Portfolio segments:
Commercial and industrial (“C&I”). C&I loans primarily include commercial and industrial lending used for general corporate purposes, working capital and liquidity, and “event-driven.” “Event-driven” loans support client merger, acquisition, or recapitalization activities. C&I lending is structured as revolving lines of credit, letter of credit facilities, term loans, and bridge loans. Risk factors considered in determining the allowance for corporate loans include the borrower’s financial strength, seniority of the loan, collateral type, leverage, volatility of collateral value, debt cushion, and covenants.
Real Estate. Real estate loans include residential real estate non-conforming loans, residential real estate conforming loans, commercial real estate, and home equity lines of credit. The allowance methodology related to real estate loans considers several factors, including, but not limited to, loan-to-value ratio, FICO score, home price index, delinquency status, credit limits, and utilization rates.
Securities-based loans. Securities-based loans allow clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying securities or refinancing margin debt. The majority of consumer loans are structured as revolving lines of credit and letter of credit facilities and are primarily offered through Stifel’s Pledged Asset (“SPA”) program. The allowance methodology for securities-based lending considers the collateral type underlying the loan, including the liquidity and trading volume of the collateral, position concentration, and other borrower specific factors such as personal guarantees.
Construction and land. Short-term loans used to finance the development of a real estate project.
Other. Other loans includes consumer and credit card lending.
Based on the most recent analysis performed, the risk category of our loan portfolio was as follows: (in thousands):
NOTE 9 - Fixed Assets
The following is a summary of fixed assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, depreciation and amortization totaled $40.9 million, $38.4 million, and $27.9 million, respectively.
As of December 31, 2019, the Company had a total lease portfolio of 14 aircraft engines with a net book value of $200.4 million. Lease income, included in other income in the consolidated statements of operations, was $20.9 million for year ended December 31, 2019.
During the year ended December 31, 2020, Stifel Bancorp’s equity in North Shore was redeemed. As a result, we deconsolidated the related assets, liabilities, and non-controlling interests of North Shore. For more information, see Note 1 - Nature of Operations and Basis of Presentation.
NOTE 10 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets
The carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets attributable to each of our reporting segments is presented in the following table (in thousands):
The adjustments to goodwill and intangible assets during the year ended December 31, 2020, are primarily attributable to the sale of ZCM, and the acquisitions of Mooreland Partners on July 1, 2019, B&F Capital Markets on September 3, 2019, MainFirst Bank on November 1, 2019, and GMP Capital, Inc. on December 6, 2019. See Note 3 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our acquisitions.
On March 27, 2020, the Company completed the sale of ZCM, a wholly owned asset management subsidiary. The Company recorded a gain on the sale, which included a write-off of allocated goodwill and the remaining net book value of intangible assets.
The goodwill represents the value expected from the synergies created through the operational enhancement benefits that will result from the integration of each respective business, its employees, and customer base.
Amortizable intangible assets consist of acquired customer relationships, trade names, non-compete agreements, core deposits, investment banking backlog, and acquired technology that are amortized over their contractual or determined useful lives. Intangible assets as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, were as follows (in thousands):
Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $19.6 million, $16.0 million, and $12.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively, and is included in other operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations.
The weighted-average remaining lives of the following intangible assets at December 31, 2020, are: customer relationships, 10.5 years; trade name, 9.3 years; non-compete agreements, 6.1 years; core deposits, 3.5 years; investment banking backlog, 8.1 years; and acquired technology, 1.7 years. We have an intangible asset that is not subject to amortization and is, therefore, not included in the table below. As of December 31, 2020, we expect amortization expense in future periods to be as follows (in thousands):
NOTE 11 - Borrowings and Federal Home Loan Bank Advances
Our short-term financing is generally obtained through short-term bank line financing on an uncommitted, secured basis, securities lending arrangements, repurchase agreements, advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank, term loans, and committed bank line financing on an unsecured basis. We borrow from various banks on a demand basis with company-owned and customer securities pledged as collateral. The value of customer-owned securities used as collateral is not reflected in the consolidated statements of financial condition. We also have an unsecured, committed bank line available.
Our uncommitted secured lines of credit at December 31, 2020, totaled $1.0 billion with five banks and are dependent on having appropriate collateral, as determined by the bank agreements, to secure an advance under the line. The availability of our uncommitted lines is subject to approval by the individual banks each time an advance is requested and may be denied. Our peak daily borrowing on our uncommitted secured lines was $490.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. There are no compensating balance requirements under these arrangements. Any borrowings on secured lines of credit are generally utilized to finance certain fixed income securities. At December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding balances on our uncommitted secured lines of credit.
The Federal Home Loan advances are floating-rate advances. The weighted average interest rates on these advances during the year ended December 31, 2020, was 1.30%. The advances are secured by Stifel Bancorp’s residential mortgage loan portfolio and investment portfolio. The interest rates reset on a daily basis. Stifel Bancorp has the option to prepay these advances without penalty on the interest reset date. At December 31, 2020, there were no Federal Home Loan advances.
Our committed bank line financing at December 31, 2020, consisted of a $200.0 million revolving credit facility. The credit facility expires in March 2024. The applicable interest rate under the revolving credit facility is calculated as a per annum rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 1.75%, as defined in the revolving credit facility. At December 31, 2020, we had no advances on our revolving credit facility and were in compliance with all covenants.
Stifel, our broker-dealer subsidiary, has a 364-day Credit Agreement (“Stifel Credit Facility”) with a maturity date of June 2021 in which the lenders are a number of financial institutions. This committed unsecured borrowing facility provides for maximum borrowings of up to $300.0 million at variable rates of interest. At December 31, 2020, we had no advances on the Stifel Credit Facility and were in compliance with all covenants.
NOTE 12 - Senior Notes
The following table summarizes our senior notes as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
(1)
In July 2014, we sold in a registered underwritten public offering, $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.250% senior notes due July 2024. Interest on these senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. We may redeem the notes in whole or in part, at our option, at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus a “make-whole” premium and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption. In July 2016, we issued an additional $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.25% senior notes due 2024.
(2)
In May 2020, we sold in a registered underwritten public offering, $400.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 4.00% senior notes due May 2030. Interest on these senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. We may redeem the notes in whole or in part, at our option, at a redemption price equal to the greater of a) 100% of their principal amount, or b) discounted present value at Treasury rate plus 50 basis points prior to February 15, 2030, and on or after February 15, 2030, at 100% of their principal amount, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption.
(3)
In October 2017, we completed the pricing of a registered underwritten public offering of $200.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.20% senior notes due October 2047. Interest on the senior notes is payable quarterly in arrears on January 15, April 15, July 15, and October 15. On or after October 15, 2022, we may redeem some or all of the senior notes at any time at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes being redeemed plus accrued interest thereon to the redemption date. On October 27, 2017, we completed the sale of an additional $25.0 million aggregate principal amount of Notes pursuant to the over-allotment option.
(4)
In December 2015, we sold in a registered underwritten public offering, $300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.50% senior notes due December 2020. Interest on these senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears. We may redeem the notes in whole or in part, at our option, at a redemption price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus a “make-whole” premium and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption. These notes matured in December 2020.
Our senior notes mature as follows, based upon contractual terms (in thousands):
NOTE 13 - Bank Deposits
Deposits consist of interest-bearing-demand deposits (primarily money market and savings accounts), non-interest-bearing demand deposits, and certificates of deposit. Deposits at December 31, 2020 and 2019, were as follows (in thousands):
The weighted-average interest rate on deposits was 0.09% and 0.64% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
Scheduled maturities of certificates of deposit at December 31, 2020 and 2019, were as follows (in thousands):
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the amount of deposits includes related party deposits, primarily interest-bearing and time deposits of $6.7 million and $6.7 million, respectively. Brokerage customers’ deposits were $16.0 billion and $13.9 billion, respectively.
NOTE 14 - Debentures to Stifel Financial Capital Trusts
The following table summarizes our debentures to Stifel Financial Capital Trusts as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
(1)
On August 12, 2005, we completed a private placement of $35.0 million of 6.38% Cumulative Trust Preferred Securities. The trust preferred securities were offered by Stifel Financial Capital Trust II (the “Trust II”), a non-consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of our company. The trust preferred securities mature on September 30, 2035, but may be redeemed by our company, and in turn, the Trust II would call the debenture beginning September 30, 2010. The Trust II requires quarterly distributions of interest to the holders of the trust preferred securities. Distributions are payable at a floating interest rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.70% per annum. During 2016, we extinguished $15.0 million of the Trust II debentures.
(2)
On March 30, 2007, we completed a private placement of $35.0 million of 6.79% Cumulative Trust Preferred Securities. The trust preferred securities were offered by Stifel Financial Capital Trust III (the “Trust III”), a non-consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of our company. The trust preferred securities mature on June 6, 2037, but may be redeemed by our company, and in turn, Trust III would call the debenture beginning June 6, 2012. Trust III requires quarterly distributions of interest to the holders of the trust preferred securities. Distributions are payable at a floating interest rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.85% per annum.
(3)
On June 28, 2007, we completed a private placement of $35.0 million of 6.78% Cumulative Trust Preferred Securities. The trust preferred securities were offered by Stifel Financial Capital Trust IV (the “Trust IV”), a non-consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of our company. The trust preferred securities mature on September 6, 2037, but may be redeemed by our company, and in turn, Trust IV would call the debenture beginning September 6, 2012. Trust IV requires quarterly distributions of interest to the holders of the trust preferred securities. Distributions are payable at a floating interest rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 1.85% per annum.
NOTE 15 - Disclosures About Offsetting Assets and Liabilities
The following table provides information about financial assets and derivative assets that are subject to offset as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
(1)
Securities borrowing transactions are included in receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations on the consolidated statements of financial condition. See Note 4 in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on receivables from brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations.
(2)
Collateral received includes securities received by our company from the counterparty. These securities are not included on the consolidated statements of financial condition unless there is an event of default. The fair value of securities pledged as collateral was $217.3 million and $385.3 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
The following table provides information about financial liabilities and derivative liabilities that are subject to offset as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
(3)
Securities lending transactions are included in payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations on the consolidated statements of financial condition. See Note 4 in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information on payables to brokers, dealers, and clearing organizations.
(4)
Collateral pledged includes the fair value of securities pledged by our company to the counter party. These securities are included on the consolidated statements of financial condition unless we default. Collateral pledged by our company to the counter party includes U.S. government agency securities, U.S. government securities, and corporate fixed income securities with market values of $200.2 million and $407.3 million at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.
NOTE 16 - Commitments, Guarantees, and Contingencies
Broker-Dealer Commitments and Guarantees
In the normal course of business, we enter into underwriting commitments. Settlement of transactions relating to such underwriting commitments, which were open at December 31, 2020, had no material effect on the consolidated financial statements.
As a part of our fixed income public finance operations, we enter into forward commitments to purchase agency mortgage-backed securities. In order to hedge the market interest rate risk to which we would otherwise be exposed between the date of the commitment and date of sale of the mortgage-backed securities, we enter into to be announced (“TBA”) security contracts with investors for generic mortgage-backed security at specific rates and prices to be delivered on settlement dates in the future. We may be subject to loss if the timing of, or the actual amount of, the mortgage-backed security differs significantly from the term and notional amount of the TBA security contract to which we entered. These TBA securities and related purchase commitment are accounted for at fair value. As of December 31, 2020, the fair value of the TBA securities and the estimated fair value of the purchase commitments was $141.2 million.
We also provide guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreement, which requires members to guarantee the performance of other members. Under the agreement, if another member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearinghouse, other members would be required to meet shortfalls. Our liability under these agreements is not quantifiable and may exceed the cash and securities we have posted as collateral. However, the potential requirement for us to make payments under these arrangements is considered remote. Accordingly, no liability has been recognized for these arrangements.
Other Commitments
In the ordinary course of business, Stifel Bancorp has commitments to extend credit in the form of commitments to originate loans, standby letters of credit, and lines of credit. See Note 23 in the notes to consolidated financial statements for further details.
Concentration of Credit Risk
We provide investment, capital-raising, and related services to a diverse group of domestic customers, including governments, corporations, and institutional and individual investors. Our exposure to credit risk associated with the non-performance of customers in fulfilling their contractual obligations pursuant to securities transactions can be directly impacted by volatile securities markets, credit markets, and regulatory changes. This exposure is measured on an individual customer basis and on a group basis for customers that share similar attributes. To reduce the potential for risk concentrations, counterparty credit limits have been implemented for certain products and are continually monitored in light of changing customer and market conditions. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we did not have significant concentrations of credit risk with any one customer or counterparty, or any group of customers or counterparties.
NOTE 17 - Legal Proceedings
Our company and its subsidiaries are named in and subject to various proceedings and claims arising primarily from our securities business activities, including lawsuits, arbitration claims, class actions, and regulatory matters. Some of these claims seek substantial compensatory, punitive, or indeterminate damages. Our company and its subsidiaries are also involved in other reviews, investigations, and proceedings by governmental and self-regulatory organizations regarding our business, which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, and other relief. We are contesting allegations in these claims, and we believe that there are meritorious defenses in each of these lawsuits, arbitrations, and regulatory investigations. In view of the number and diversity of claims against our company, the number of jurisdictions in which litigation is pending, and the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of litigation and other claims, we cannot state with certainty what the eventual outcome of pending litigation or other claims will be.
We have established reserves for potential losses that are probable and reasonably estimable that may result from pending and potential legal actions, investigations, and regulatory proceedings. In many cases, however, it is inherently difficult to determine whether any loss is probable or reasonably possible or to estimate the amount or range of any potential loss, particularly where proceedings may be in relatively early stages or where plaintiffs are seeking substantial or indeterminate damages. Matters frequently need to be more developed before a loss or range of loss can reasonably be estimated.
In our opinion, based on currently available information, review with outside legal counsel, and consideration of amounts provided for in our consolidated financial statements with respect to these matters, including the matter described below, the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations. However, resolution of one or more of these matters may have a material effect on the results of operations in any future period, depending upon the ultimate resolution of those matters and depending upon the level of income for such period. For matters where a reserve has not been established and for which we believe a loss is reasonably possible, as well as for matters where a reserve has been recorded but for which an exposure to loss in excess of the amount accrued is reasonably possible, based on currently available information, we believe that such losses will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
Karegnondi Water Authority
Stifel has been named as a defendant in a United States District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, Southern Division, litigation in connection with the underwriting of bonds to finance the Karegnondi Water Authority (“KWA”) pipeline, a new water pipeline intended to serve Flint, Michigan, and surrounding areas. The lawsuit is filed against JP Morgan Chase, as senior manager, and Stifel and Wells Fargo, as co-managers, who underwrote the bonds for the KWA in 2014. The complaint alleges novel claims against the underwriter defendants, including conspiracy and professional negligence. We intend to defend vigorously against the allegations.
NOTE 18 - Regulatory Capital Requirements
We operate in a highly regulated environment and are subject to capital requirements, which may limit distributions to our company from its subsidiaries. Distributions from our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to net capital rules. A broker-dealer that fails to comply with the SEC’s Uniform Net Capital Rule (Rule 15c3-1) may be subject to disciplinary actions by the SEC and self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA, including censures, fines, suspension, or expulsion. Stifel has chosen to calculate its net capital under the alternative method, which prescribes that their net capital shall not be less than the greater of $1.0 million or two percent of aggregate debit balances (primarily receivables from customers) computed in accordance with the SEC’s Customer Protection Rule (Rule 15c3-3). Our other broker-dealer subsidiaries calculate their net capital under the aggregate indebtedness method, whereby their aggregate indebtedness may not be greater than fifteen times their net capital (as defined).
At December 31, 2020, Stifel had net capital of $487.7 million, which was 40.0% of aggregate debit items and $463.3 million in excess of its minimum required net capital. At December 31, 2020, all of our other broker-dealer subsidiaries’ net capital exceeded the minimum net capital required under the SEC rule.
Our international subsidiary, SNEL, is subject to the regulatory supervision and requirements of the Financial Conduct Authority (“FCA”) in the United Kingdom. At December 31, 2020, our international subsidiary’s capital and reserves were in excess of the financial resources requirement under the rules of the FCA.
Our Canadian subsidiary, SNC, is subject to the regulatory supervision and requirements of the Investment Industry Regulatory Organization of Canada (“IIROC”). At December 31, 2020, SNC’s net capital and reserves were in excess of the financial resources requirement under the rules of the IIROC.
Our company, as a bank holding company, Stifel Bank & Trust, Stifel Bank, Stifel Trust Company, N.A., and Stifel Trust Company, Delaware, N.A., (collectively, “banking subsidiaries”), are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal and state banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on our company’s and its banking subsidiaries’ financial results. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, our company and its banking subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of our assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Our company’s and its banking subsidiaries’ capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors.
Under the Basel III rules, the quantity and quality of regulatory capital increased, a capital conservation buffer was established, selected changes were made to the calculation of risk-weighted assets, and a new ratio, common equity Tier 1, was introduced, all of which are applicable to both our company and its banking subsidiaries.
Our company and its banking subsidiaries are required to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and Tier 1 capital (as defined) to risk-weighted assets (as defined), Tier 1 capital to average assets (as defined), and under rules defined in Basel III, Common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets. Our company and its banking subsidiaries each calculate these ratios in order to assess compliance with both regulatory requirements and their internal capital policies. At current capital levels, our company and its banking subsidiaries are each categorized as “well capitalized” under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as “well capitalized,” our company and its banking subsidiaries must maintain total risk-based, Tier 1 risk-based, and Tier 1 leverage ratios.
The amounts and ratios for Stifel Financial Corp., Stifel Bank & Trust, and Stifel Bank as of December 31, 2020, are represented in the tables below (in thousands, except ratios).
NOTE 19 - Operating Leases
Our operating leases primarily relate to office space and office equipment with remaining lease terms of 1 to 15 years. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, operating lease right-of-use assets were $793.2 million and $725.8 million, respectively, and included in fixed assets, net in the consolidated statements of financial condition, and lease liabilities were $839.8 million and $766.0 million, respectively, and included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
The table below summarizes our net lease cost for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
Operating lease costs are included in occupancy and equipment rental in the consolidated statements of operations.
The table below summarizes other information related to our operating leases as of and for the year ended December 31, 2020 (in thousands):
In the table above, the weighted-average discount rate represents our company’s incremental borrowing rate as of January 2019 for leases existing on the date of adoption of the new lease standard and at the lease inception date for leases entered into subsequent to the adoption of ASU 2016-02.
The table below presents information about operating lease liabilities as of December 31, 2020, (in thousands, except percentages):
NOTE 20 - Revenues From Contracts With Customers
The following table presents the Company’s total revenues broken out by revenues from contracts with customers and other sources of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
Revenue from contracts with customers is recognized when, or as, we satisfy our performance obligations by transferring the promised services to the customers. A service is transferred to a customer when, or as, the customer obtains control of that service. A performance obligation may be satisfied over time or at a point in time. Revenue from a performance obligation satisfied over time is recognized by measuring our progress in satisfying the performance obligation in a manner that depicts the transfer of the services to the customer. Revenue from a performance obligation satisfied at a point in time is recognized at the point in time that we determine the customer obtains control over the promised service. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those promised services (i.e., the “transaction price”). In determining the transaction price, we consider multiple factors, including the effects of variable consideration. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price only to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainties with respect to the amount are resolved. In determining when to include variable consideration in the transaction price, we consider the range of possible outcomes, the predictive value of our past experiences, the time period of when uncertainties expect to be resolved and the amount of consideration that is susceptible to factors outside of our influence, such as market volatility or the judgment and actions of third parties.
The following provides detailed information on the recognition of our revenues from contracts with customers:
Commissions. We earn commission revenue by executing, settling, and clearing transactions for clients primarily in OTC and listed equity securities, insurance products, and options. Trade execution and clearing and custody services, when provided together, represent a single performance obligation as the services are not separately identifiable in the context of the contract. Commission revenues associated with combined trade execution and clearing and custody services, as well as trade execution services on a standalone basis, are recognized at a point in time on trade-date. Commission revenues are generally paid on settlement date, and we record a receivable between trade-date and payment on settlement date.
Investment Banking. We provide our clients with a full range of capital markets and financial advisory services. Capital markets services include underwriting and placement agent services in both the equity and debt capital markets, including private equity placements, initial public offerings, follow-on offerings, underwriting and distributing public and private debt.
Capital-raising revenues are recognized at a point in time on trade-date, as the client obtains the control and benefit of the capital markets offering at that point. Costs associated with capital-raising transactions are deferred until the related revenue is recognized or the engagement is otherwise concluded, and are recorded on a gross basis within other operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations as we are acting as a principal in the arrangement. Any expenses reimbursed by our clients are recognized as investment banking revenues.
Revenues from financial advisory services primarily consist of fees generated in connection with merger, acquisition, and restructuring transactions. Advisory fees from mergers and acquisitions engagements are recognized at a point in time when the related transaction is completed, as the performance obligation is to successfully broker a specific transaction. Fees received prior to the completion of the transaction are deferred within accounts payable and accrued expenses on the consolidated statements of financial condition. Advisory fees from restructuring engagements are recognized over time using a time elapsed measure of progress as our clients simultaneously receive and consume the benefits of those services as they are provided. A significant portion of the fees we receive for our advisory services are considered variable as they are contingent upon a future event (e.g., completion of a transaction or third party emergence from bankruptcy) and are excluded from the transaction price until the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved, which is expected to occur upon achievement of the specified milestone. Payment for advisory services are generally due promptly upon completion of a specified milestone or, for retainer fees, periodically over the course of the engagement. We recognize a receivable between the date of completion of the milestone and payment by the customer. Expenses associated with investment banking advisory engagements are deferred only to the extent they are explicitly reimbursable by the client, and the related revenue is recognized at the same time as the associated expense. All other investment banking advisory-related expenses, including expenses incurred related to restructuring assignments, are expensed as incurred. All investment banking advisory expenses are recognized within other operating expenses on the consolidated statements of operations, and any expenses reimbursed by our clients are recognized as investment banking revenues.
Asset Management Fees. We earn management and performance fees in connection with investment advisory services provided to institutional and individual clients. Investment advisory fees are charged based on the value of assets in fee-based accounts and are affected by changes in the balances of client assets due to market fluctuations and levels of net new client assets. Fees are charged either in advance based on fixed rates applied to the value of the customers’ account at the beginning of the period or periodically based on contracted rates and account performance. Contracts can be terminated at any time with no incremental payments due to our company upon termination. If the contract is terminated by the customer fees are prorated for the period and fees charged for the post termination period are refundable to the customer.
Disaggregation of Revenue
The following tables present the Company’s revenues from contracts with customers by reportable segment disaggregated by major business activity and primary geographic regions for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
(1) Excludes revenues not derived from contracts with customers in the Other segment.
See Note 25 for further break-out of revenues by geography.
Information on Remaining Performance Obligations and Revenue Recognized From Past Performance
We do not disclose information about remaining performance obligations pertaining to contracts that have an original expected duration of one year or less. The transaction price allocated to remaining unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied performance obligations with an original expected duration exceeding one year was not material at December 31, 2020. Investment banking advisory fees that are contingent upon completion of a specific milestone and fees associated with certain distribution services are also excluded as the fees are considered variable and not included in the transaction price at December 31, 2020.
Contract Balances
The timing of our revenue recognition may differ from the timing of payment by our customers. We record a receivable when revenue is recognized prior to payment and we have an unconditional right to payment. Alternatively, when payment precedes the provision of the related services, we record deferred revenue until the performance obligations are satisfied.
We had receivables related to revenues from contracts with customers of $148.6 million and $151.3 million at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, respectively, in other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition. We had no significant impairments related to these receivables during the year ended December 31, 2020.
Our deferred revenue primarily relates to retainer fees received in investment banking advisory engagements where the performance obligation has not yet been satisfied. Deferred revenue at December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, was $12.1 million and $11.3 million, respectively, and included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
NOTE 21 - Interest Income and Interest Expense
The components of interest income and interest expense are as follows (in thousands):
NOTE 22 - Employee Incentive, Deferred Compensation, and Retirement Plans
We maintain an incentive stock plan and a wealth accumulation plan (“the Plan”) that provides for the granting of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, performance awards, stock units, and debentures (collectively, “deferred awards”) to our associates. We are permitted to issue new shares under all stock award plans approved by shareholders or to reissue our treasury shares. Stock awards issued under our company’s incentive stock plan are granted at market value at the date of grant. Our deferred awards generally vest ratably over a one- to ten-year vesting period.
Our stock-based compensation plans are administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (“Compensation Committee”), which has the authority to interpret the plans, determine to whom awards may be granted under the plans, and determine the terms of each award. According to the incentive stock plan, we are authorized to grant an additional 9.8 million shares at December 31, 2020.
Expense associated with our stock-based compensation, included in compensation and benefits expense in the consolidated statements of operations for our company’s incentive stock award plan was $156.2 million, $135.5 million, and $111.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
The tax benefit related to stock-based compensation was $25.9 million, $11.9 million, and $4.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
Deferred Awards
A restricted stock unit represents the right to receive a share of the Company’s common stock at a designated time in the future without cash payment by the associate and is issued in lieu of cash incentive, principally for deferred compensation and employee retention plans. The restricted stock units vest on an annual basis over the next one to ten years and are distributable, if vested, at future specified dates. Restricted stock awards are restricted as to sale or disposition. These restrictions lapse over the next one to two years.
Our company grants Performance-based Restricted Stock Units (“PRSUs”) to certain of its executive officers. Under the terms of the grants, the number of PRSUs that will vest and convert to shares will be based on our company’s achievement of the pre-determined performance objectives during the performance period. The PRSUs will be measured over a four-year performance period and vested over a five-year period. Any resulting delivery of shares for PRSUs granted as part of compensation will occur after four years for 80% of the earned award, and in the fifth year for the remaining 20% of the earned award. The number of shares converted has the potential to range from 0% to 200% based on how the Company performs during the performance period. Compensation expense is amortized over the service period based on the fair value of the deferred award on the grant date. The Company’s pre-determined performance objectives must be met for the awards to vest. Associates forfeit unvested deferred awards upon termination of employment with a corresponding reversal of compensation expense. Certain deferred awards may continue to vest under certain
circumstances as described in the Plan. At December 31, 2020, the total number of restricted stock units, PRSUs, and restricted stock awards outstanding was 20.9 million, of which 17.9 million were unvested.
A summary of unvested restricted equity award activity, which includes restricted stock units and restricted stock awards, for the year ended December 31, 2020, is presented below (in thousands, except weighted-average fair value):
At December 31, 2020, there was approximately $491.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost for deferred awards, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.7 years.
The fair value of restricted stock units and restricted stock that vested or converted during the year ended December 31, 2020, was $151.3 million.
Deferred Compensation Plans
The Plan is provided to certain revenue producers, officers, and key administrative associates, whereby a certain percentage of their incentive compensation is deferred as defined by the Plan into company stock units, restricted stock, and debentures. Participants may elect to defer a portion of their incentive compensation. Deferred awards generally vest over a one- to ten-year period and are distributable upon vesting or at future specified dates. Deferred compensation costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Elective deferrals are 100% vested.
Additionally, the Plan allows Stifel financial advisors who achieve certain levels of production a contribution of a certain percentage of their gross commissions. As stipulated by the Plan, the financial advisors have a contribution of 5% of their gross commissions. The contribution is split between company restricted stock units and debentures. They have the option to defer an additional 1% of gross commissions into company stock units.
In addition, certain financial advisors, upon joining our company, may receive company stock units in lieu of transition cash payments. Deferred compensation related to these awards generally vests over a one- to eight-year period. Deferred compensation costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the deferral period.
Profit Sharing Plan
Eligible U.S. associates of our company who have met certain service requirements may participate in the Stifel Financial Corp. Profit Sharing 401(k) Plan (the “401(k) Plan”). Associates are permitted within limitations imposed by tax law to make contributions to the 401(k) Plan. We may match certain associate contributions or make additional contributions to the 401(k) Plan at our discretion. Our contributions to the 401(k) Plan, included in compensation and benefits in the consolidated statements of operations, were $13.9 million, $13.4 million, and $12.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively.
NOTE 23 - Off-Balance Sheet Credit Risk
In the normal course of business, we execute, settle, and finance customer and proprietary securities transactions. These activities expose our company to off-balance sheet risk in the event that customers or other parties fail to satisfy their obligations.
In accordance with industry practice, securities transactions generally settle within two business days after trade date. Should a customer or broker fail to deliver cash or securities as agreed, we may be required to purchase or sell securities at unfavorable market prices.
We borrow and lend securities to facilitate the settlement process and finance transactions, utilizing customer margin securities held as collateral. We monitor the adequacy of collateral levels on a daily basis. We periodically borrow from banks on a collateralized basis, utilizing firm and customer margin securities in compliance with SEC rules. Should the counterparty fail to return customer securities pledged, we are subject to the risk of acquiring the securities at prevailing market prices in order to satisfy our customer obligations. We control our exposure to credit risk by continually monitoring our counterparties’ positions, and where deemed necessary, we may require a deposit of additional collateral and/or a reduction or diversification of positions. Our company sells securities it does not currently own (short sales) and is obligated to subsequently purchase such securities at prevailing market prices. We are exposed to risk of loss if securities prices increase prior to closing the transactions. We control our exposure to price risk from short sales through daily review and setting position and trading limits.
We manage our risks associated with the aforementioned transactions through position and credit limits and the continuous monitoring of collateral. Additional collateral is required from customers and other counterparties when appropriate.
We have accepted collateral in connection with resale agreements, securities borrowed transactions, and customer margin loans. Under many agreements, we are permitted to sell or repledge these securities held as collateral and use these securities to enter into securities lending arrangements or to deliver to counterparties to cover short positions. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the fair value of securities accepted as collateral where we are permitted to sell or repledge the securities was $1.8 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively, and the fair value of the collateral that had been sold or repledged was $191.0 million and $391.6 million, respectively.
We enter into interest rate derivative contracts to manage exposures that arise from business activities that result in the receipt or payment of future known and uncertain cash amounts, the value of which are determined by interest rates. Our derivative financial instruments are principally used to manage differences in the amount, timing, and duration of our known or expected cash payments related to certain variable-rate affiliated deposits. Interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges involve the receipt of variable-rate amounts from a counterparty in exchange for us making fixed-rate payments. Our interest rate hedging strategies may not work in all market environments and, as a result, may not be effective in mitigating interest rate risk.
Derivatives’ notional contract amounts are not reflected as assets or liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Rather, the market or fair value of the derivative transactions are reported in the consolidated statements of financial condition as other assets or accounts payable and accrued expenses, as applicable. As of December 31, 2020, derivative balances were immaterial.
In the ordinary course of business, Stifel Bancorp has commitments to originate loans, standby letters of credit, and lines of credit. Commitments to originate loans are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established by the contract. These commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Since a portion of the commitments may expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash commitments. Each customer’s creditworthiness is evaluated on a case-by-case basis. The amount of collateral obtained, if necessary, is based on the credit evaluation of the counterparty. Collateral held varies, but may include accounts receivable, inventory, property, plant and equipment, commercial real estate, and residential real estate.
At December 31, 2020 and 2019, Stifel Bancorp had outstanding commitments to originate loans aggregating $889.0 million and $384.5 million, respectively. The commitments extended over varying periods of time, with all commitments at December 31, 2020, scheduled to be disbursed in the following three months.
Through Stifel Bancorp, in the normal course of business, we originate residential mortgage loans and sell them to investors. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that have been sold to investors in the event there are breaches of certain representations and warranties contained within the sales agreements. We may be required to repurchase mortgage loans that were sold to investors in the event that there was inadequate underwriting or fraud, or in the event that the loans become delinquent shortly after they are originated. We also may be required to indemnify certain purchasers and others against losses they incur in the event of breaches of representations and warranties and in various other circumstances, and the amount of such losses could exceed the repurchase amount of the related loans. Consequently, we may be exposed to credit risk associated with sold loans.
Standby letters of credit are irrevocable conditional commitments issued by Stifel Bancorp to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. Financial standby letters of credit are primarily issued to support public and private borrowing arrangements, including commercial paper, bond financing, and similar transactions. Performance standby letters of credit are issued to guarantee performance of certain customers under non-financial contractual obligations. The credit risk involved in issuing standby letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loans to customers. Should Stifel Bancorp be obligated to perform under the standby letters of credit, it may seek recourse from the customer for reimbursement of amounts paid. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, Stifel Bancorp had outstanding letters of credit totaling $31.8 million and $38.3 million, respectively. A majority of the standby letters of credit commitments at December 31, 2020, have expiration terms that are less than one year.
Lines of credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Lines of credit generally have fixed expiration dates. Stifel Bancorp uses the same credit policies in granting lines of credit as it does for on-balance sheet instruments. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, Stifel Bancorp had granted unused lines of credit to commercial and consumer borrowers aggregating $2.5 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively.
Effective January 1, 2020, we adopted the new accounting standard for credit losses that requires evaluation of our loan portfolio for any expected losses with recognition of an allowance for credit losses, when applicable. For more information, see Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Upon the adoption of the new accounting standard, we recorded a reserve for unfunded commitments of $20.4 million, which is included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated statements of financial condition. At December 31, 2020, the expected credit losses for unfunded lending commitments was $23.3 million.
NOTE 24 - Income Taxes
The provision for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands):
Reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate with our company’s effective income tax rate is as follows (in thousands):
Tax effect of temporary differences and carryforwards that comprise significant portions of deferred tax assets and liabilities (in thousands):
Our net deferred tax asset at December 31, 2020, includes net operating loss carryforwards of $226.2 million that expire between 2024 and 2040. Certain of our net operating loss carryforwards do not expire. A valuation allowance is recorded to the extent that it is more likely than not that any portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The valuation allowance was increased by $6.7 million.
We believe the realization of the remaining net deferred tax asset of $136.5 million is more likely than not based on the ability to carry back losses against prior year taxable income for tax years before 2021 and carry forward net operating losses indefinitely after 2021, and expectations of future taxable income, which is supported by a history of cumulative income.
The current tax payable, included in accounts payable and accrued expenses, is $38.2 million and $15.0 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. At December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Company did not have a tax receivable.
As of December 31, 2020, we considered all undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries to be permanently reinvested. Therefore, we have not provided for any U.S. deferred income taxes. Because the time or manner of repatriation is uncertain, we cannot determine the impact of local taxes, withholding taxes and foreign tax credits associated with the future repatriation of such earnings, and therefore cannot quantify the tax liability that would be payable in the event all such foreign earnings are repatriated.
Uncertain Tax Positions
As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had $4.0 million and $3.4 million, respectively, of gross unrecognized tax benefits, all of which, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had accrued interest and penalties of $0.4 million and $0.2 million, respectively, before benefit of federal tax deduction, included in accounts payable and accrued expenses in our consolidated statements of financial condition. The amount of interest and penalties recognized in our consolidated statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, was not significant.
The following table summarizes the activity related to our company’s unrecognized tax benefits from January 1, 2018 to December 31, 2020 (in thousands):
We file income tax returns with the U.S. federal jurisdiction, various states, and certain foreign jurisdictions. We are not subject to U.S. federal examination for taxable years before 2013. We are not subject to certain state and local, or non-U.S. income tax examinations for taxable years before 2010.
There is a reasonable possibility that the unrecognized tax benefits will change within the next 12 months as a result of the expiration of various statutes of limitations or for the resolution of U.S. federal and state examinations, but we do not expect this change to be material to the consolidated financial statements.
NOTE 25 - Segment Reporting
We currently operate through the following three business segments: Global Wealth Management, Institutional Group, and various corporate activities combined in the Other segment.
Our Global Wealth Management segment consists of two businesses, the Private Client Group and Stifel Bancorp. The Private Client Group includes branch offices and independent contractor offices of our broker-dealer subsidiaries located throughout the United States. These branches provide securities brokerage services, including the sale of equities, mutual funds, fixed income products, and insurance, as well as offering banking products to their clients through our bank subsidiaries, which provide residential, consumer, and commercial lending, as well as FDIC-insured deposit accounts to customers of our private client group and to the general public.
The Institutional Group segment includes institutional sales and trading. It provides securities brokerage, trading, and research services to institutions, with an emphasis on the sale of equity and fixed income products. This segment also includes the management of and participation in underwritings for both corporate and public finance (exclusive of sales credits generated through the private client group, which are included in the Global Wealth Management segment), merger and acquisition, and financial advisory services.
The Other segment includes interest income from stock borrow activities, unallocated interest expense, interest income and gains and losses from investments held, amortization of stock-based awards, and all unallocated overhead cost associated with the execution of orders; processing of securities transactions; custody of client securities; receipt, identification, and delivery of funds and securities; compliance with regulatory and legal requirements; internal financial accounting and controls; and general administration and acquisition charges.
Information concerning operations in these segments of business for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, is as follows (in thousands):
(1)
No individual client accounted for more than 10 percent of total net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018.
The following table presents our company’s total assets on a segment basis at December 31, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands):
We have operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Europe, and Canada. Our company’s foreign operations are conducted through its wholly owned subsidiaries, SNEL and SNC. Substantially all long-lived assets are located in the United States.
Revenues, classified by the major geographic areas in which they were earned for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, were as follows (in thousands):
NOTE 26 - Earnings Per Share (“EPS”)
Basic EPS is computed by dividing earnings available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the earnings of the entity. Diluted earnings per share include dilutive stock options and stock units under the treasury stock method.
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 (in thousands, except per share data):
(1)
Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Diluted earnings per share include stock options and units.
For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, the anti-dilutive effect from restricted stock units was immaterial.
Cash Dividends
During the year ended December 31, 2020, we declared and paid cash dividends of $0.45 per common share. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we declared and paid cash dividends of $0.40 per common share. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we declared and paid cash dividends of $0.32 per common share.
NOTE 27 - Shareholders’ Equity
Share Repurchase Program
We have an ongoing authorization from the Board of Directors to repurchase our common stock in the open market or in negotiated transactions. At December 31, 2020, the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased under this plan was 13.3 million. The repurchase program has no expiration date. These purchases may be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions, depending upon market conditions and other factors. Repurchased shares may be used to meet obligations under our employee benefit plans and for general corporate purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we repurchased $58.3 million or 1.7 million shares using existing Board authorizations at an average price of $33.35 per share to meet obligations under our company’s employee benefit plans and for general corporate purposes. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we repurchased $215.4 million or 5.9 million shares using existing Board authorizations at an average price of $36.63 per share to meet obligations under our company’s employee benefit plans and for general corporate purposes.
Issuance of Common Stock from Treasury
During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we issued 1.6 million and 1.4 million shares, respectively, of common stock from treasury primarily as a result of vesting and exercise transactions under our incentive stock award plans.
Issuance of Common Stock
On August 31, 2018, we issued approximately 2.0 million shares for acquisition of Business Bancshares, Inc. See Note 3 in the notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the acquisition.
Issuance of Preferred Stock
On May 19, 2020, the Company issued $225.0 million of 6.125% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C, $1.00 par value, with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 liquidation preference per depositary share), which included the sale of $25.0 million of Series C Preferred, pursuant to the over-allotment option.
When, as, and if declared by the board of directors of the Company, dividends will be payable at an annual rate of 6.125%, payable quarterly, in arrears. The Company may redeem the Series C preferred stock at its option, subject to regulatory approval, on or after June 15, 2025.
On February 21, 2019, the Company issued $150.0 million of 6.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series B, $1.00 par value, with a liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 liquidation preference per depositary share). In March 2019, we completed a public offering of an additional $10.0 million of Series B Preferred, pursuant to the over-allotment option.
When, as, and if declared by the board of directors of the Company, dividends will be payable at an annual rate of 6.25%, payable quarterly, in arrears. The Company may redeem the Series B preferred stock at its option, subject to regulatory approval, on or after March 15, 2024.
NOTE 28 - Variable Interest Entities
Our company’s involvement with VIEs is limited to entities used as investment vehicles and private equity funds, the establishment of Stifel Financial Capital Trusts, and our issuance of a convertible promissory note.
We have formed several non-consolidated investment funds with third-party investors that are typically organized as limited liability companies (“LLCs”) or limited partnerships. These partnerships and LLCs have assets of $295.6 million at December 31, 2020. For those funds where we act as the general partner, our company’s economic interest is generally limited to management fee arrangements as stipulated by the fund operating agreements. We have generally provided the third-party investors with rights to terminate the funds or to remove us as the general partner. Management fee revenue earned by our company was insignificant during the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018. In addition, our direct investment interest in these entities is insignificant at December 31, 2020 and 2019.
For the entities noted above that were determined to be VIEs, we have concluded that we are not the primary beneficiary, and therefore, we are not required to consolidate these entities.
Debenture to Stifel Financial Capital Trusts
We have completed private placements of cumulative trust preferred securities through Stifel Financial Capital Trust II, Stifel Financial Capital Trust III, and Stifel Financial Capital Trust IV (collectively, the “Trusts”). The Trusts are non-consolidated wholly owned business trust subsidiaries of our company and were established for the limited purpose of issuing trust securities to third parties and lending the proceeds to our company.
The trust preferred securities represent an indirect interest in junior subordinated debentures purchased from our company by the Trusts, and we effectively provide for the full and unconditional guarantee of the securities issued by the Trusts. We make timely payments of interest to the Trusts as required by contractual obligations, which are sufficient to cover payments due on the securities issued by the Trusts, and believe that it is unlikely that any circumstances would occur that would make it necessary for our company to make payments related to these Trusts other than those required under the terms of the debenture agreements and the trust preferred securities agreements. The Trusts were determined to be VIEs because the holders of the equity investment at risk do not have adequate decision-making ability over the Trust’s activities. Our investment in the Trusts is not a variable interest, because equity interests are variable interests only to the extent that the investment is considered to be at risk. Because our investment was funded by the Trusts, it is not considered to be at risk.
NOTE 29 - Subsequent Events
We evaluate subsequent events that have occurred after the balance sheet date but before the financial statements are issued. There are two types of subsequent events: (1) recognized, or those that provide additional evidence about conditions that existed at the date of the balance sheet, including the estimates inherent in the process of preparing financial statements, and (2) non-recognized, or those that provide evidence about conditions that did not exist at the date of the balance sheet but arose after that date. Based on the evaluation, we did not identify any recognized subsequent events that would have required adjustment to the consolidated financial statements.
NOTE 30 - Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
ITEM 9.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: b2031d98827dfedb63a3ba2a2bf08e81
- Approx. Length: 33054 characters