# Context

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of RH
Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of RH and its subsidiaries (the “Company”) as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders’ equity (deficit) and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended February 1, 2020, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial statements”). We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of February 1, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended February 1, 2020 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of February 1, 2020, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the COSO.
Changes in Accounting Principles
As discussed in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for leases in fiscal 2019 and the manner in which it accounts for revenues from contracts with customers in fiscal 2018. The adoption of the accounting standard on leases is also discussed below as a critical audit matter.
Basis for Opinions
The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company’s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Emphasis of Matter
As discussed in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, in response to the public health crisis posed by COVID-19, effective from March 17, 2020, the Company temporarily closed its retail locations for an indeterminate period of time. As a result of these developments, the Company expects an unfavorable impact on its sales, results of operations and cash flows in fiscal 2020. Management’s evaluation of the events and conditions and management’s plans to mitigate these matters are also described in Note 20.
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Critical Audit Matters
The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the consolidated financial statements that was communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (i) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the consolidated financial statements and (ii) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the accounts or disclosures to which it relates.
Adoption of Accounting Standard on Leases
As described above and in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the new accounting standard on leases using a modified retrospective approach. Under this adoption method, the results of prior comparative periods are presented with an adjustment to opening retained earnings of the earliest comparative period presented. As of February 3, 2019, the adoption of the new accounting standard on leases resulted in an increase of $617 million and $633 million to consolidated total assets and liabilities, respectively. In addition, the Company recorded an increase to the fiscal 2017 (the earliest comparative period presented) opening retained earnings balance of $4.0 million, inclusive of the tax impact. The adoption of the new accounting standard on leases included the derecognition of non-Company owned properties that were capitalized under previously existing build-to-suit accounting policies and are now classified as either an operating or finance lease upon lease commencement. In addition, any capital amounts contributed by the Company toward the construction of the leased asset are recorded as landlord assets under construction within other non-current assets. Upon lease commencement, the Company reclassifies amounts of the construction project determined to be the landlord asset to lease right-of-use assets.
The principal considerations for our determination that performing procedures relating to adoption of the new accounting standard on leases is a critical audit matter are that there was significant judgment by management when (i) identifying and evaluating the impact of varying terms and conditions within leasing contracts, highlighted by the treatment of non-Company owned properties that were capitalized under previously existing build-to-suit accounting policies, and (ii) applying the transition guidance to all current and comparative periods presented in accordance with the modified retrospective method. This in turn led to significant auditor judgment, subjectivity and effort in performing audit procedures relating to the accounting treatment for each lease arrangement and the application of the transition guidance to all current and comparative periods presented. The audit effort involved the use of professionals with specialized skill and knowledge.
Addressing the matter involved performing procedures and evaluating audit evidence in connection with forming our overall opinion on the consolidated financial statements. These procedures included testing the effectiveness of controls relating to the adoption of the new accounting standard on leases, including the treatment of non-Company owned properties and the transition guidance to all current and comparative periods presented. These procedures also included, among others, evaluating management’s lease classification and accounting treatment of all non-Company owned properties that were capitalized under previously existing build-to-suit accounting policies and the recognition of right-of-use assets and liabilities to all current and comparative periods presented. Professionals with specialized skill and knowledge were used to assist in evaluating the Company’s technical application of the accounting standard related to non-Company owned properties that were capitalized under previously existing build-to-suit accounting policies, and the application of the transition guidance to all current and comparative periods presented.
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Francisco, California
March 30, 2020
We have served as the Company’s auditor since 2008.
RH
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(In thousands, except share amounts)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
RH
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except share and per share amounts)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
RH
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
(In thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
RH
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY (DEFICIT)
(In thousands, except share amounts)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
RH
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(In thousands)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these Consolidated Financial Statements.
RH
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
NOTE 1-NATURE OF BUSINESS
RH, a Delaware corporation, together with its subsidiaries (collectively, the “Company”), is a luxury home furnishings retailer that offers a growing number of categories, including furniture, lighting, textiles, bathware, décor, outdoor and garden, and child and teen furnishings. These products are sold through the Company’s stores, catalogs and websites.
As of February 1, 2020, the Company operated a total of 68 RH Galleries and 38 RH outlet stores in 31 states, the District of Columbia and Canada, as well as 15 Waterworks showrooms throughout the United States and in the U.K., and had sourcing operations in Shanghai and Hong Kong.
NOTE 2-ORGANIZATION
The Company was formed on August 18, 2011 and capitalized on September 2, 2011 as a holding company for the purposes of facilitating an initial public offering of common equity and was at such time a direct subsidiary of Home Holdings, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (“Home Holdings”).
On November 1, 2012, the Company acquired all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of Restoration Hardware, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and Restoration Hardware, Inc. became a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Restoration Hardware, Inc. was a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Home Holdings prior to the Company’s initial public offering. Outstanding units issued by Home Holdings under its equity compensation plan, referred to as the Team Resto Ownership Plan, were replaced with common stock of the Company at the time of its initial public offering. These transactions are referred to as the “Reorganization.” On November 7, 2012, the Company completed its initial public offering.
On December 15, 2016, Restoration Hardware Holdings, Inc. filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware to change its name to “RH,” effective January 1, 2017.
Convertible Senior Notes
In September 2019, the Company issued in a private offering $350 million principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2024 (the “2024 Notes”). In connection with the issuance of these notes, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions for which it paid an aggregate amount of $91.4 million. In connection with the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company sold warrants to purchase shares of common stock of the Company, for which it received aggregate proceeds of approximately $50.2 million. Taken together, the Company received total cash proceeds of $304.1 million, net of discounts upon original issuance and offering costs of $4.8 million, from the issuance of the 2024 Notes and the related warrants. Refer to Note 10-Convertible Senior Notes.
Subsequent Event
In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus disease (“COVID-19”) as a pandemic, which continues to spread throughout the United States and globally. Refer to Note 20-Subsequent Event for further information.
NOTE 3-SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of Presentation
These consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“GAAP”). The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Accordingly, all intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated through the consolidation process.
Revision
As previously disclosed within the Company’s quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for its fiscal quarters during the year ended February 1, 2020, during the adoption process of the new lease accounting standard (refer to “Recently Issued Accounting Standards-Leases” below), the Company identified a lease agreement that was incorrectly accounted for as an impaired lease under Accounting Standard Codification (“ASC”) 420-Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations in fiscal 2017 and the first quarter of fiscal 2018. This error resulted in an overstatement of net income of $1.4 million and $0.9 million for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, respectively. This error also resulted in an overstatement of retained earnings as of February 3, 2018 of $1.4 million, from $152.4 million as reported to $151.0 million as revised, and understatement of accumulated deficit of $2.3 million, from $376.8 million as reported to $379.1 million, prior to the impact of the modified retrospective application of the new lease accounting standard as further discussed under “Recently Issued Accounting Standards-Leases” below. In addition, as of February 2, 2019, this error resulted in an understatement of other non-current obligations of $3.3 million, and an overstatement of other current liabilities of $1.0 million, as revised. Although these errors are not considered to be material to any of the previously issued financial statements, the Company has revised the accompanying consolidated financial statements to reflect the correction of these errors.
In addition, during the adoption process of the new lease accounting standard, the Company identified an error in its previously reported consolidated statement of cash flows for fiscal 2018. This error resulted in an understatement of $9.2 million of net cash provided by operating activities and an understatement of $9.2 million of net cash used in investing activities for fiscal 2018. There was no impact on the consolidated balance sheets, consolidated statements of operations or the consolidated statement of stockholders’ equity (deficit) related to this error. Although these errors are not considered to be material to any of the previously issued financial statements, the Company has revised the accompanying consolidated financial statements to reflect the correction of these errors.
The following are selected line items from the Company’s consolidated statements of cash flows illustrating the effect of the corrections, prior to the adoption of the modified retrospective application of the new lease accounting standard (in thousands):
Fiscal Years
The Company’s fiscal year ends on the Saturday closest to January 31. As a result, the Company’s fiscal year may include 53 weeks. The fiscal years ended February 1, 2020 (“fiscal 2019”) and February 2, 2019 (“fiscal 2018”) each consisted of 52 weeks. The fiscal year ended February 3, 2018 (“fiscal 2017”) consisted of 53 weeks.
Use of Accounting Estimates
The preparation of the Company’s consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates and such differences could be material to the consolidated financial statements.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents.
Concentration of Credit Risk
The Company maintains its cash and cash equivalent accounts in financial institutions in both U.S. dollar and Canadian dollar denominations. Accounts at the U.S. institutions are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) up to $250,000 and accounts at the Canadian institutions are insured by the Canada Deposit Insurance Corporation (“CDIC”) up to $100,000 Canadian dollars. As of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, and at various times throughout these fiscal years, the Company had cash in financial institutions in excess of the amount insured by the FDIC and CDIC. The Company performs ongoing evaluations of these institutions to limit its concentration of credit risk.
Accounts Receivable
Accounts receivable consist primarily of receivables from the Company’s credit card processors for sales transactions, receivables related to the Company’s contract business and other miscellaneous receivables. Accounts receivable is presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts, which is recorded on a specific identification basis. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $2.2 million and $1.9 million as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively.
Merchandise Inventories
The Company’s merchandise inventories are comprised of finished goods and are carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value, with cost determined on a weighted-average cost method. To determine if the value of inventory should be marked down below original cost, the Company uses estimates to determine the lower of cost or net realizable value, which considers current and anticipated demand, customer preference and the merchandise age. The inventory value is adjusted periodically to reflect current market conditions, which requires management judgments that may significantly affect the ending inventory valuation, as well as gross margin. The estimates used in inventory valuation are lower of cost or net realizable value reserves and obsolescence (including excess and slow-moving inventory). Additionally, the Company estimates and accrues for inventory shrinkage for the period between the last physical count and the balance sheet date.
The Company’s inventory reserves contain uncertainties that require management to make assumptions and to apply judgment regarding a number of factors, including market conditions, the selling environment, historical results and current inventory trends. The Company adjusts inventory reserves for net realizable value and obsolescence based on trends, aging reports, specific identification and estimates of future retail sales prices.
Reserves for shrinkage are estimated and recorded throughout the year as a percentage of shipped sales for the direct channels, and a percentage of cost of goods sold for the outlet business, based on historical shrinkage results and current inventory levels. Actual shrinkage is recorded throughout the year based upon periodic cycle counts and the results of the Company’s annual physical inventory counts. Actual inventory shrinkage and obsolescence can vary from estimates due to factors including the mix of the Company’s inventory (which ranges from large furniture to décor) and execution against loss prevention initiatives in the Company’s stores, distribution centers, home delivery center
locations, off-site storage locations and with its third-party transportation providers. Accordingly, there is no shrinkage reserve at year-end, with the exception of a cycle count reserve for the Company’s distribution centers and home delivery center locations based on the historical cycle count results.
If actual net realizable value, obsolescence or shrinkage estimates change from the Company’s original estimates, the Company will adjust its inventory reserves accordingly throughout the period. The Company’s inventory reserve balances were $25.6 million and $30.7 million as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively.
Product Recalls
During fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, the Company initiated product recalls for certain of its products, as well as adjusted accruals related to certain product recalls previously initiated due to changes in estimates based on customer response and vendor and insurance recoveries. Product recalls had the following effect on the Company’s income before income taxes (in thousands):
The product recall accrual as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019 was $2.1 million and $7.8 million, respectively, and is included in other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.
Advertising Expenses
Advertising expenses primarily represent the costs associated with the Company’s catalog mailings, as well as print and website marketing. Total advertising expense, which is recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations, was $107.6 million, $97.0 million and $106.6 million in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
Capitalized Catalog Costs
Capitalized catalog costs consist primarily of third-party incremental direct costs to prepare, print and distribute Source Books. Such costs are capitalized and recognized as expense upon the delivery of the Source Books to the carrier. In the case of multiple printings of a Source Book, the creative costs will be expensed in full upon the initial delivery of Source Books to the carrier.
The Company had $13.7 million and $16.2 million of capitalized catalog costs as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively, which are included in prepaid expense and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
Website and Print Advertising
Website and print advertising expenses, which include e-commerce advertising, web creative content and direct marketing activities such as print media, radio and other media advertising, are expensed as incurred or upon the release of the content or the initial advertisement.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment is recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method, generally using the following useful lives:
The cost of leasehold improvements is amortized over the lesser of the useful life of the asset or the applicable lease term, which could include option periods reasonably certain to be exercised.
The Company expenses all internal-use software costs incurred in the preliminary project stage and capitalizes certain direct costs associated with the development and purchase of internal-use software, including external costs of materials and services and internal payroll costs related to the software project, within property and equipment. Capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the software, generally between three and ten years.
Interest is capitalized on construction in progress and software projects during the period in which expenditures have been made, activities are in progress to prepare the asset for its intended use and interest expense is being incurred. The Company capitalized interest of $4.9 million, $3.1 million and $3.3 million in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. During fiscal 2019, $3.7 million of the $4.9 million capitalized interest relates to the capitalization of non-cash interest associated with the amortization of the convertible senior notes debt discount. During fiscal 2018, $2.7 million of the $3.1 million capitalized interest relates to the capitalization of non-cash interest associated with the amortization of the convertible senior notes debt discount. During fiscal 2017, $2.5 million of the $3.3 million capitalized interest relates to the capitalization of non-cash interest associated with the amortization of the convertible senior notes debt discount.
Land purchased by the Company is recorded at cost and is a non-depreciable asset.
Property and equipment is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable. For further discussion regarding the impairment accounting policy refer to “Impairment-Long-Lived Assets” below.
Asset Held for Sale
Upon designation as an asset held for sale, the carrying value of the asset is recorded at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated fair value less estimated costs to sell, and the Company ceases depreciating the asset.
Lease Accounting
The Company leases nearly all of its retail and outlet store locations, corporate headquarters, distribution and home delivery facilities, as well as other storage and office space. The initial lease terms of the Company’s real estate leases generally range from ten to fifteen years, and certain leases contain renewal options for up to an additional 25 years, the exercise of which is at the Company’s sole discretion. The Company also leases certain equipment with lease terms generally ranging from three to seven years. The Company’s lease agreements generally do not contain any material residual value guarantees or material restrictions or covenants.
The Company accounts for lease and non-lease components as a single lease component for real estate leases, and for all other asset classes the Company accounts for the components separately. The Company determines the lease classification and begins to recognize lease and any related financing expenses upon the lease’s commencement, which
for real estate leases is generally upon store opening or, to a lesser extent, when the Company takes possession or control of the asset.
The Company subleases certain real estate locations to third parties under operating leases and recognizes rental income received on a straight-line basis over the lease term, which is recorded as an offset to selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations.
Lease arrangements may require the landlord to provide tenant allowances directly to the Company. Standard tenant allowances received from landlords, typically those received under operating lease agreements, are recorded as cash and cash equivalents with an offset recorded in lease right-of-use assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Tenant allowances that are reasonably certain to be received subsequent to lease commencement are reflected as a reduction of both the lease liabilities and right-of-use assets on the consolidated balance sheets at the commencement date.
In certain instances tenant allowances are provided for the Company to design and build the leased asset. Tenant allowances received from landlords during the construction phase of a leased asset and prior to lease commencement are recorded as cash and cash equivalents with an offset recorded in other non-current assets (to the extent the Company has incurred related capital expenditure for construction costs) or in other current liabilities (to the extent that payments are received prior to capital construction expenditures by the Company) on the consolidated balance sheets. After the leased asset is constructed and the lease commences, the Company reclassifies the tenant allowance from other non-current assets or other current liabilities to lease right-of-use assets on the consolidated balance sheets, and such allowances are amortized over the reasonably certain lease term.
Lease Classification
Certain of the Company’s real estate and equipment leases are classified as finance leases. Lease characteristics that the Company evaluates to determine lease classification include, but are not limited to, the reasonably certain lease term, and the economic life and fair value of the leased asset. Lease related assets under such classification are included in finance lease right-of-use assets within property and equipment-net on the consolidated balance sheets.
Leases that do not meet the definition of a finance lease are considered operating leases. Lease related assets classified as operating leases are included in operating lease right-of-use assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
Reasonably Certain Lease Term
In recognizing the lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities, the Company utilizes the lease term for which it is reasonably certain to use the underlying asset, including consideration of options to extend or terminate the lease. At lease commencement, the Company evaluates whether it is reasonably certain to exercise available options based on consideration of a variety of economic factors and the circumstances related to the leased asset. Factors considered include, but are not limited to, (i) the contractual terms compared to estimated market rates, (ii) the uniqueness or importance of the asset or its location, (iii) the potential costs of obtaining an alternative asset, (iv) the potential costs of relocating or ceasing use of the asset, including the consideration of leasehold improvements and other invested capital, and (v) any potential tax consequences.
The determination of the reasonably certain lease term affects the inclusion of rental payments utilized in the incremental borrowing rate calculations, the results of the lease classification test, and consideration of certain assets held for sale or planned for sale-leaseback. The reasonably certain lease term may materially impact the Company’s financial position related to certain Design Galleries or distribution center facilities which typically have greater lease payments. Although the above factors are considered in management’s analysis, the assessment involves subjectivity considering the Company’s strategy, expected future events and market conditions. While the Company believes its estimates and judgments in determining the lease term are reasonable, future events may occur which may require the Company to reassess this determination.
Leases, or lease extensions, with a term of twelve months or less are not recorded on the consolidated balance sheets, and the Company recognizes lease expense for these leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Lease Payments
The majority of the Company’s real estate lease agreements include minimum rent payments which are subject to stated lease escalations over the lease term and eligible renewal periods. These fixed payments through the reasonably certain lease term are included in the Company’s measurement of the lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities upon lease commencement.
Certain of the Company’s lease agreements include rental payments based on a percentage of retail sales over contractual levels. Additionally, certain lease agreements include rental payments based solely on a percentage of retail sales. Due to the variable and unpredictable nature of such payments, the Company does not recognize a lease right-of-use asset and lease liability related to such payments. Estimated variable rental payments are included in accounts payable and accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheets in the period they are incurred and until such payments are made, and the related lease cost is included in cost of goods sold on the consolidated statements of operations.
The Company has a small group of real estate leases that include rental payments periodically adjusted for inflation (e.g., based on the consumer price index). The Company includes these variable payments in the initial measurement of the lease right-of-use asset and lease liability according to the index or rate at the commencement date and incorporates adjustments to rental payments in future periods if such increases have a minimum rent escalation (e.g., floor). Changes due to differences between the variable lease payments estimated at least commencement and actual amounts incurred are recognized in the consolidated statement of operations in the period such costs are incurred.
Incremental Borrowing Rate
As the Company’s real estate leases and most of its equipment leases do not include an implicit interest rate, the Company determines the discount rate for each lease based upon the incremental borrowing rate (“IBR”) in order to calculate the present value of lease payments at the commencement date. The IBR is computed as the rate of interest that the Company would have to pay to (i) borrow on a collateralized basis (ii) over a similar term (iii) an amount equal to the total lease payments (iv) in a similar economic environment. The Company utilizes its asset based credit facility as the basis for determining the applicable IBR for each lease. The Company estimates the incremental borrowing rate for each lease primarily by reference to (i) yield rates on debt issuances by companies of a similar credit rating; (ii) the weighted-average lease term; and (iii) adjustments for differences between the yield rates and the actual term of the credit facility. In determining the yield rates for leases other than new Design Galleries, the Company utilizes market information as of the beginning of the quarter in which the lease commenced. For Design Galleries, the Company utilizes market information on the lease commencement date.
Fair Market Value
The Company determines the fair value of the underlying asset, and the lease components such as land and building, for purposes of determining the lease classification and allocating its contractual rental payments to the lease components. The fair value of the underlying asset and lease components also impact the evaluation and accounting for assets held for sale and sale-leaseback transactions. The fair value assessments may materially impact the Company’s financial position related to certain Design Galleries or distribution center facilities which typically have greater fair values.
The determination of fair value requires subjectivity and estimates, including the use of multiple valuation techniques and uncertain inputs, such as market price per square foot and assumed capitalization rates or the replacement cost of the assets, where applicable. Where real estate valuation expertise is required the Company obtains independent third-party appraisals to determine the fair value of the underlying asset and lease components. While determining fair value requires a variety of input assumptions and judgment, management believes its estimates of fair market value are reasonable.
Construction Related Activities
The Company is often involved in the construction of leased stores for its newer Design Galleries. Prior to construction commencement, the Company evaluates whether or not it, as lessee, controls the asset being constructed
and, depending on the extent to which it is involved, the Company may be the “deemed owner” of the leased asset for accounting purposes during the construction period under a build-to-suit arrangement.
If the Company is not the “deemed owner” for accounting purposes during the construction period, such lease is classified as either an operating or finance lease upon lease commencement. During the construction period and prior to lease commencement, any capital amounts contributed by the Company toward the construction of the leased asset (excluding normal leasehold improvements, which are recorded within property and equipment-net) are recorded as “Landlord assets under construction” within other non-current assets on the consolidated balance sheets (refer to Note 4-Prepaid Expense and Other Assets). Upon completion of the construction project, and upon lease commencement, the Company reclassifies amounts of the construction project determined to be the landlord asset to lease right-of-use assets on the consolidated balance sheets based on the lease classification determined at lease commencement. The construction costs determined not to be part of the leased asset are classified as property and equipment-net on the consolidated balance sheets.
If the Company is the “deemed owner” for accounting purposes, upon commencement of the construction project it is required to capitalize (i) costs incurred by the Company and (ii) the cash and non-cash assets contributed by the landlord for construction as property and equipment on its consolidated balance sheets as build-to-suit assets, with an offsetting financing obligation under build-to-suit lease transactions. The contributions by the landlord toward construction, including the building, existing site improvements at construction commencement and any amounts paid by the landlord to those responsible for construction, are included as property and equipment additions due to build-to-suit lease transactions within the non-cash section of the consolidated statements of cash flows. Over the lease term, these non-cash additions to property and equipment do not impact the Company’s cash outflows, nor do they impact net income on the consolidated statements of operations.
Upon completion of the construction project, the Company performs a sale-leaseback analysis to determine if it can derecognize the build-to-suit asset and corresponding financing obligation. If the asset and liability cannot be derecognized, the Company accounts for the agreement as a debt-like arrangement.
If the Company is involved in a debt-like arrangement for a non-real estate asset under construction for which the Company plans to lease such asset upon construction completion and makes deposits during the construction period, the Company recognizes the related deposits as “Deposits on asset under construction” within other non-current assets on the consolidated balance sheets (refer to Note 4-Prepaid Expense and Other Assets). In the event the Company executes promissory notes related to the deposits, such promissory notes are recorded as “Promissory notes on asset under construction” within other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets (refer to Note 7-Accounts Payable, Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities). The Company recognizes the constructive disbursements and receipts of such debt-like arrangements on a gross basis on the consolidated statements of cash flows within cash flows from investing activities and cash flows from financing activities, respectively.
Sale-Leaseback Activities
The Company occasionally enters into sale-leaseback transactions to finance certain property acquisitions and capital expenditures, pursuant to which the Company sells the property to a third party and agrees to lease the property back for a certain period of time. To determine whether the transfer of the property should be accounted for as a sale, the Company evaluates whether it has transferred control to the third party in accordance with the guidance set forth in ASC Topic 606.
If the transfer of the asset is a sale at market terms, the Company recognizes the transaction price for the sale based on the cash proceeds received, derecognizes the carrying amount of the underlying asset and recognizes a gain or loss in the consolidated statements of operations for any difference between the carrying value of the asset and the transaction price. The Company then accounts for the leaseback in accordance with its lease accounting policy.
If the transfer of the asset is determined not to be a sale, the Company accounts for the transaction as a financing arrangement. The Company continues to present the asset within property and equipment-net on the consolidated balance sheets and recognizes a non-current obligation on the consolidated balance sheets for the transaction price, with the financial liability subsequently measured in accordance with other applicable GAAP.
Intangible Assets
Intangible assets reflect the value assigned to tradenames, trademarks and domain names. The Company does not amortize its intangible assets as the Company defines the life of these assets as indefinite.
Impairment
Goodwill
The Company evaluates goodwill annually to determine whether it is impaired or whenever events occur or circumstances change that would indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in customer demand or business climate that could affect the value of an asset; general economic conditions, such as increasing Treasury rates or unexpected changes in gross domestic product growth; a change in the Company’s market share; budget-to-actual performance and consistency of operating margins and capital expenditures; a product recall or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; or changes in management or key personnel.
The Company performs its annual goodwill impairment testing in the fourth fiscal quarter by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, limited to the total amount of goodwill of the reporting unit. The Company will recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value.
The Company determines fair values using the discounted cash flow approach (“income approach”) or the market multiple valuation approach (“market approach”), when available and appropriate, or a combination of both. The Company assesses the valuation methodology based upon the relevance and availability of the data at the time it performs the valuation. If multiple valuation methodologies are used, the results are weighted appropriately.
Under the income approach, fair value is determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate risk-adjusted rate. The Company uses its internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and includes an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on its most recent views of the long-term outlook for each respective reporting unit. Actual results may differ from those assumed in the Company’s forecasts. The Company derives its discount rates using a capital asset pricing model and analyzing published rates for industries relevant to its reporting units to estimate the cost of equity financing. The Company uses discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective businesses and in its internally developed forecasts.
Valuations using the market approach are derived from metrics of publicly traded companies or historically completed transactions of comparable businesses. The selection of comparable businesses is based on the markets in which the reporting units operate giving consideration to risk profiles, size, geography, and diversity of products and services. A market approach is limited to reporting units for which there are publicly traded companies that have the characteristics similar to the Company’s businesses.
Estimating the fair value of reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results. It is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described above could change in future periods.
A reporting unit is an operating segment, or a business unit one level below that operating segment for which discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”), which is the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. The Company has deemed RH Segment and Waterworks to be the
reporting units for which goodwill is independently tested, as these operating segments are the lowest level for which discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by the CODM.
RH Segment Reporting Unit
During fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, the Company reviewed the RH Segment reporting unit goodwill for impairment by assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit was less than its carrying amount. Based on the qualitative tests performed in each fiscal year, the Company determined that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit was less than its carrying amount for fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, and therefore the Company did not recognize goodwill impairment with respect to the RH Segment in any such fiscal year.
Waterworks Reporting Unit
During the fourth fiscal quarters of 2018 and 2017, the Company conducted its annual strategic planning process. Based upon the outcome of this process in each fiscal year, management identified indicators that there could be an impairment of the Waterworks reporting unit. These indicators included (i) an updated long-range financial plan provided by the Waterworks segment management that indicated a reduction of revenues and EBITDA as compared to prior long-range financial plans, (ii) a review of the strategic initiatives of the Waterworks segment and (iii) the Waterworks segment not achieving revenue and operating income objectives compared to plans.
In determining the Waterworks reporting unit estimated fair value using the income approach in both fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, the Company projected future cash flows based on management’s estimates and long-term plans and applied a discount rate based on a weighted-average cost of capital. This analysis required the Company to make judgments about revenues, expenses, fixed asset and working capital requirements, the impact of updated tax legislation and other subjective inputs. In determining the Waterworks reporting unit estimated fair value using the market approach, the Company considered assumptions that it believes market participants would use in valuing the Waterworks reporting unit, based on EBITDA multiples and including the application of a control premium. For purposes of this analysis, in both fiscal years, the Company weighted the results 80% towards the income approach and 20% towards the market approach.
Based on the estimated fair value of the Waterworks reporting unit as of the assessment date of each of its fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017 analysis, the Company recorded a $17.4 million and $33.7 million non-cash impairment in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively, to reduce the carrying value of goodwill in the Waterworks reporting unit. The impairment is recorded in goodwill and tradename impairment on the consolidated statements of operations and the Waterworks reporting unit goodwill was fully impaired as of February 2, 2019.
Tradenames, Trademarks and Domain Names
The Company annually evaluates whether tradenames, trademarks and domain names continue to have an indefinite life. Tradenames, trademarks and domain names are reviewed for impairment annually in the fourth quarter and may be reviewed more frequently if indicators of impairment are present. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in customer demand or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, a product recall or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator.
The Company qualitatively assesses indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the asset is less than its carrying amount. If tradenames, trademarks and domain names are not qualitatively assessed or if such intangible assets are qualitatively assessed and it is determined it is not more likely than not that the asset’s fair value is greater than its carrying amount, an impairment review is performed by comparing the carrying value to the estimated fair value, determined using a discounted cash flow methodology, which requires management judgments that may significantly affect the ending asset valuation. Factors used in the valuation of intangible assets with indefinite lives include, but are not limited to, management’s plans for future operations, brand initiatives, recent results of operations and projected future cash flows.
In the event the Company quantitatively assesses a reporting unit’s indefinite-lived intangible asset for impairment, the Company performs an impairment test which utilizes the discounted cash flow methodology under the relief-from-royalty method. Under the relief-from-royalty method, significant assumptions include the forecasted future revenues and the estimated royalty rate, expressed as a percentage of revenues.
RH Segment Reporting Unit
During fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, the Company qualitatively assessed the indefinite-lived intangible assets of the RH Segment reporting unit for impairment and determined it was more likely than not that the fair value of the assets were greater than their carrying amounts. Based on the qualitative tests performed in each fiscal year, the Company did not perform quantitative impairment tests in any year. The Company did not recognize any impairment with respect to intangible assets for the RH Segment reporting unit in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017.
Waterworks Reporting Unit
In connection with the goodwill impairment test performed for the Waterworks reporting unit in fiscal 2017, described above, the Company performed an impairment test on the tradenames allocated to the reporting unit which utilized the discounted cash flow methodology under the relief-from-royalty method. Under the relief-from-royalty method, the Company’s significant assumptions include the forecasted future revenues and the estimated royalty rate, expressed as a percentage of revenues. Based on the quantitative impairment test performed, which resulted in fair value of the tradename in excess of book value by approximately 26%, the Company concluded that the tradename allocated to the Waterworks reporting unit was not impaired as of February 3, 2018 and did not recognize any impairment with respect to the tradename for the Waterworks reporting unit in fiscal 2017.
At the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of 2018, the Company determined that there were no events or circumstances that indicated any impairment for the Waterworks reporting unit tradename. During the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018, management updated the fiscal 2019 budget and financial projections beyond fiscal 2019 for the Waterworks reporting unit. There were certain factors that caused the key financial inputs for the tradename valuation model to significantly decrease from the previous inputs, the most significant of which was a reduction of future forecasted net revenues resulting from an expected shift in product mix, challenges in continuing to grow the showrooms business and supply chain constraints.
These factors arising during the fourth fiscal quarter of 2018 had a significant and negative impact on the estimated future cash flows of the Waterworks reporting unit. In connection with the goodwill impairment test performed for the Waterworks reporting unit in fiscal 2018, described above, the Company performed an impairment test on the tradename allocated to the reporting unit which utilized the discounted cash flow methodology under the relief-from-royalty method. Under the relief-from-royalty method, the Company’s significant assumptions include the forecasted future revenues and the estimated royalty rate, expressed as a percentage of revenues. Based on the quantitative impairment test performed and the result of changes in forecasted revenues and the valuation assumption around future royalty rates, the Company concluded that the Waterworks reporting unit tradename was impaired as of February 2, 2019. As a result, the Company recognized a $14.6 million non-cash impairment with respect to the tradename for the Waterworks reporting unit in fiscal 2018, which was recorded in goodwill and tradename impairment on the consolidated statements of operations.
The Company performed its annual impairment procedures on the tradename allocated to the Waterworks reporting unit which utilized the discounted cash flow methodology under the relief-from-royalty method. Under the relief-from-royalty method, the Company’s significant assumptions include the forecasted future revenues and the estimated royalty rate, expressed as a percentage of revenues. Based on the quantitative impairment test performed, the Company concluded that the Waterworks reporting unit tradename was not impaired as of February 1, 2020. The Company did not recognize any impairment for the Waterworks reporting unit tradename in fiscal 2019, and the Waterworks tradename balance was $37.5 million as of February 1, 2020.
Long-Lived Assets
Long-lived assets, such as property and equipment and lease right-of-use assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in customer demand or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, change in intended use of an asset, a product recall or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining life of the primary asset is less than the carrying value, the Company recognizes a loss equal to the difference between the carrying value and the fair value, usually determined by the estimated discounted cash flow analysis of the asset or asset group. The asset group is defined as the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are available and largely independent of the cash flows of other groups of assets, which for the stores is the individual gallery level.
Since there is typically no active market for the Company’s long-lived assets, the Company estimates fair values based on the expected future cash flows of the asset or asset group, using a discount rate commensurate with the related risk. The estimate of fair value requires management judgments that may significantly affect the ending asset valuation. Future cash flows are estimated based on gallery-level historical results, current trends, and operating and cash flow projections. The Company’s estimates are subject to uncertainty and may be affected by a number of factors outside its control, including general economic conditions and the competitive environment. While the Company believes its estimates and judgments about future cash flows are reasonable, future impairment charges may be required if the expected cash flow estimates, as projected, do not occur or if events change requiring the Company to revise its estimates.
The Company did not record impairment for long-lived tangible assets at the individual gallery level in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 or fiscal 2017. Due to certain distribution center closures and business line integrations in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, the Company recorded impairment for certain corporate assets and other long-lived assets as discussed below under “Distribution Center Closures” and “RH Contemporary Art Impairment,” as well as in Note 9-Leases. No additional impairment has been recorded for corporate assets and other long-lived assets in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017.
Distribution Center Closures
During the third quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company initiated and executed a plan to close its distribution center located in Essex, MD. As a result of the distribution center closure, the Company incurred restructuring related costs in the RH Segment in fiscal 2018, including a lease impairment charge of $2.2 million and a loss on disposal of capitalized property and equipment of $0.2 million, as well as costs for employee termination benefits of $0.2 million. The impact to selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations was $2.6 million, which represents the total charges incurred with this distribution center closure. The Company did not incur any charges in fiscal 2019 and does not expect to incur additional charges in the future associated with this distribution center closure.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company initiated a plan to close two of its distribution centers, one located in Mira Loma, CA and one located in Dallas, TX. The Mira Loma distribution center closure was finalized in November 2017 and the Dallas distribution center closure was finalized in January 2018, both of which occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. As a result of the distribution center closures, the Company incurred restructuring related costs in the RH Segment in fiscal 2017, including estimated loss on disposal of capitalized property and equipment of $4.4 million, as well as costs for employee termination benefits of $0.9 million. The total expense of $5.3 million was included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations.
During the first quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company recognized a $0.8 million reversal of an estimated loss on disposal of asset due to negotiations of the sales price being finalized. The Company did not incur any charges in fiscal 2019 and does not expect to incur additional charges in the future associated with these distribution center closures.
RH Contemporary Art Impairment
In fiscal 2016, the Company initiated and executed a plan to integrate the RH Contemporary Art (“RHCA”) product line into the broader RH platform and no longer operates RHCA as a separate division. The Company recorded additional operating lease right-of-use asset impairment associated with RHCA of $4.6 million, $3.4 million and $4.4 million during fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. These impairment charges, which are recorded in the RH Segment, resulted from an update to both the timing and the amount of future estimated lease related cash inflows based on present market conditions, which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations.
Debt Issuance Costs
Debt issuance costs related to debt, excluding the asset based credit facility, are recorded as a contra-liability and are presented net against the respective debt balance on the consolidated balance sheets. Debt issuance costs are amortized utilizing the effective interest method over the expected life of the respective debt. Such amortization is included in interest expense-net on the consolidated statements of operations.
Deferred financing fees related to the asset based credit facility are included in non-current assets on the consolidated balance sheets. Deferred financing fees related to the asset based credit facility are amortized utilizing the straight-line method. Such amortization is included in interest expense-net on the consolidated statements of operations.
Revenue Recognition
The Company recognizes revenues and the related cost of goods sold when a customer obtains control of the merchandise, which is when the customer has the ability to direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the merchandise. Revenue recognized for merchandise delivered via the home-delivery channel is recognized upon delivery. Revenues recognized for merchandise delivered via all other delivery channels are recognized upon shipment. Revenues from “cash-and-carry” store sales are recognized at the point of sale in the store. Discounts or other accommodations provided to customers are accounted for as a reduction of sales.
The Company recognizes shipping and handling fees as activities to fulfill the promise to transfer the merchandise to customers. The Company applies this policy consistently across all of its distribution channels. In instances where revenue is recognized for the related merchandise upon delivery to customers, the related costs of shipping and handling activities are accrued for in the same period. In instances where revenue is recognized for the related merchandise prior to delivery to customers (i.e., revenue recognized upon shipment), the related costs of shipping and handling activities are accrued for in the same period. Costs of shipping and handling are included in cost of goods sold.
Sales tax collected is not recognized as revenue but is included in accounts payable and accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheets as it is ultimately remitted to governmental authorities.
The Company reserves for projected merchandise returns. Merchandise returns are often resalable merchandise and are refunded by issuing the same payment tender of the original purchase. Merchandise exchanges of the same product and price are not considered merchandise returns and, therefore, are excluded when calculating the sales returns reserve.
The Company’s customers may return purchased items for a refund. The Company provides an allowance for sales returns based on historical return rates, which is presented on a gross basis. The allowance for sales returns is presented within other current liabilities and the estimated value of the right of return asset for merchandise is presented within prepaid expense and other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
A summary of the allowance for sales returns is as follows (in thousands):
Deferred Revenue and Customer Deposits
The Company defers revenue associated with merchandise delivered via the home-delivery channel. In instances where the Company recognizes revenue when the merchandise is delivered to customers, it is included as deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheets while in-transit. Deferred revenue also includes the unrecognized portion of the annual RH Members Program fee. New membership fees are recorded as deferred revenue when collected from customers and recognized as revenue based on expected product revenues over the annual membership period, based on historical trends of sales to members. Membership renewal fees are recorded as deferred revenue when collected from customers and are recognized as revenue on a straight-line basis over the membership period, or one year.
Customer deposits represent payments made by customers on custom orders. At the time of purchase the Company collects deposits for all custom orders equivalent to 50% of the customer purchase price. Custom order deposits are recognized as revenue when the customer obtains control of the merchandise.
The Company expects that substantially all of the deferred revenue, customer deposits and deferred membership fees as of February 1, 2020 will be recognized within the next six months as the performance obligations are satisfied.
Gift Cards and Merchandise Credits
The Company sells gift cards and issues merchandise credits to its customers in its stores and through its websites and product catalogs. Such gift cards and merchandise credits do not have expiration dates. The Company defers revenue when cash payments are received in advance of performance for unsatisfied obligations related to its gift cards and merchandise credits. During fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, the Company recognized $19.8 million and $21.6 million, respectively, of revenue related to previous deferrals related to its gift cards and merchandise credits. Customer liabilities related to gift cards and merchandise credits was $16.6 million and $17.2 million as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively.
The Company recognizes breakage associated with gift cards and merchandise credits proportional to actual gift card redemptions. Breakage of $1.6 million and $1.5 million was recorded in net revenues in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively. Breakage resulted in a reduction of selling, general and administrative expenses of $3.0 million in fiscal 2017.
The Company expects that approximately 70% of the remaining gift card and merchandise credit liabilities will be recognized when the gift cards are redeemed by customers.
Self Insurance
The Company maintains insurance coverage for significant exposures, as well as those risks that, by law, must be insured. In the case of the Company’s health care coverage for employees, the Company has a managed self insurance program related to claims filed. Expenses related to this self insured program are computed on an actuarial basis, based on claims experience, regulatory requirements, an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported (“IBNR”) and other relevant factors. The projections involved in this process are subject to uncertainty related to the timing and amount of
claims filed, levels of IBNR, fluctuations in health care costs and changes to regulatory requirements. The Company had liabilities of $2.2 million and $2.0 million related to health care coverage as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively.
The Company carries workers’ compensation insurance subject to a deductible amount for which the Company is responsible on each claim. The Company had liabilities of $4.7 and $3.3 million related to workers’ compensation claims, primarily for claims that do not meet the per-incident deductible, as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively.
Stock-Based Compensation
The Company recognizes the fair value of stock-based compensation in the consolidated financial statements as compensation expense over the requisite service period. For service-only awards, compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis, net of forfeitures, over the requisite service period for the fair value of awards that actually vest. Fair value for restricted stock units is valued using the closing price of the Company’s stock on the date of grant. The fair value of each option award granted under the Company’s award plan is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes Merton option pricing model (“OPM”) which requires the input of assumptions regarding the expected term, expected volatility, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. The Company elected to calculate the expected term of the option awards using the “simplified method.” This election was made based on the lack of sufficient historical exercise data to provide a reasonable basis upon which to estimate expected term. Under the “simplified” calculation method, the expected term is calculated as an average of the vesting period and the contractual life of the options.
Cost of Goods Sold
Cost of goods sold includes, but is not limited to, the direct cost of purchased merchandise, inventory shrinkage, inventory reserves and write-downs, inbound freight, all freight costs to get merchandise to the Company’s stores, design and buying costs, occupancy costs related to store operations and supply chain, such as rent, property tax and common area maintenance, depreciation and amortization and all logistics costs associated with shipping product to customers.
Selling, General and Administrative Expenses
Selling, general and administrative expenses include all operating costs not included in cost of goods sold. These expenses include payroll and payroll related expenses, store expenses other than occupancy, and expenses related to many of the Company’s operations at its corporate headquarters, including utilities, depreciation and amortization, credit card fees and marketing expense, which primarily includes catalog production, mailing and print advertising costs. All store pre-opening costs are included in selling, general and administrative expenses and are expensed as incurred.
Net Income (Loss) Per Share
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed as net income (loss) divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share is computed as net income divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period, common share equivalents under equity plans using the treasury-stock method and the calculated common share equivalents in excess of the respective conversion rates related to each of the convertible senior notes. Diluted net loss per share is computed as net loss divided by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Potential dilutive securities are excluded from the computation of diluted net income (loss) per share if their effect is anti-dilutive.
Treasury Stock
The Company records its purchases of treasury stock at cost as a separate component of stockholders’ equity (deficit). Upon retirement of treasury stock, the Company allocates the excess of the purchase price over par value to additional paid-in capital subject to certain limitations with any remaining purchase price allocated to retained earnings (accumulated deficit).
Income Taxes
The Company accounts for income taxes under an asset and liability approach that requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company’s consolidated financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, the Company generally takes into account all expected future events then known to it, other than changes in the tax law or rates which have not yet been enacted and which are not permitted to be considered. Accordingly, the Company may record a valuation allowance to reduce its net deferred tax assets to the amount that is more-likely-than-not to be realized. The determination as to whether a deferred tax asset will be realized is made on a jurisdictional basis and is based upon management’s best estimate of the recoverability of the Company’s net deferred tax assets. Future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning are considered in determining the amount of the valuation allowance, and the amount of the allowance is subject to adjustment in the future. Specifically, in the event the Company were to determine that it is not more-likely-than-not able to realize its net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment to the valuation allowance would decrease income in the period such determination is made. This allowance does not alter the Company’s ability to utilize the underlying tax net operating loss and credit carryforwards in the future, the utilization of which is limited to achieving future taxable income.
The accounting standard for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a recognition threshold that a tax position is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements and provides guidance on derecognition, measurement, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition issues. Differences between tax positions taken in a tax return and amounts recognized in the financial statements generally result in an increase in liability for income taxes payable or a reduction of an income tax refund receivable, or a reduction in a deferred tax asset or an increase in a deferred tax liability, or both. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in tax expense.
Comprehensive Income
Comprehensive income is comprised of net income and other gains and losses affecting equity that are excluded from net income. The components of other comprehensive income consist of net gains (losses) on foreign currency translation and net unrealized holding gains (losses) on available-for-sale investments, both of which are presented net of tax.
Foreign Currency Translation
Local currencies are generally considered the functional currencies outside the United States. Assets and liabilities denominated in non-U.S. currencies are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing on the date of the consolidated balance sheets and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange for the period. The related translation gains (losses) are reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income section on the consolidated statements of stockholders’ equity (deficit). Foreign currency gains (losses) resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations and are not material for all periods presented.
Recently Issued Accounting Standards
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and International Accounting Standards Board issued their converged accounting standards update on revenue recognition, Accounting Standards Update 2014-09-Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). This guidance outlines a single comprehensive model for companies to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance. The core principle of the revenue model is that revenue is recognized when a customer obtains control of a good or service. A customer obtains control when it has the ability to
direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the good or service. Under the new guidance, transfer of control is no longer the same as transfer of risks and rewards as indicated in the prior guidance.
Adoption and Accounting Policy
The Company adopted Topic 606, on February 4, 2018, using the modified retrospective transition method and recorded a decrease to opening retained earnings of $21.0 million, inclusive of the tax impact. Results reported within the Company’s condensed consolidated financial statements for reporting periods beginning February 4, 2018 are presented under Topic 606 while prior periods are not adjusted and continue to be reported in accordance with the Company’s historic accounting under ASC 605-Revenue Recognition (Topic 605).
Under Topic 606, changes were made to the recognition timing or classification of revenues and expenses for the following:
Adoption Impact on Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2018 Results
The following tables summarize the impact of adopting Topic 606 on the Company’s consolidated statement of income (in thousands):
(1)Reflects the modified retrospective application of the new lease accounting standard (Accounting Standards Update 2016-02-Leases). Refer to “Leases” below.
The following table summarizes the impact of adopting Topic 606 on certain line items of the Company’s consolidated balance sheet (in thousands):
(1)Reflects the modified retrospective application of the new lease accounting standard (Accounting Standards Update 2016-02-Leases). Refer to “Leases” below.
Leases
In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-02-Leases, which requires a lessee to distinguish all leases as operating leases or finance leases and recognize all leases on the balance sheet as a right-of-use asset with a corresponding lease liability representing the present value of lease payments. The standard also requires a lessee to recognize a single lease cost for operating leases, calculated so that the cost of the lease is allocated over the lease term, generally on a straight-line basis. The lease cost for finance leases includes both principal and interest components, and is higher than the corresponding cash payment at the beginning of the lease term and declines over the lease term as the liability is reduced. In July 2018, the FASB issued
Accounting Standards Update 2018-10-Codification Improvements to Topic 842 (Leases), and Accounting Standards Update 2018-11-Leases (Topic 842)-Targeted Improvements, which (i) narrows amendments to clarify how to apply certain aspects of the new lease standard, (ii) provides entities with an additional transition method to adopt the new standard, and (iii) provides lessors with a practical expedient for separating components of a contract. In March 2019, the FASB also Accounting Standards Update 2019-01-Leases (Topic 842)-Codification Improvements. These Accounting Standards Updates are collectively referred to as the “ASUs.”
The Company adopted the ASUs as of February 3, 2019 using a modified retrospective approach. Under this adoption method, the results of prior comparative periods are presented with an adjustment to opening retained earnings of the earliest comparative period presented. In addition, the Company elected to adopt the package of transition practical expedients, which permitted the Company not to reassess its prior conclusions regarding lease identification, lease classification and initial direct costs. The Company adopted the policy election to not separate lease and non-lease components for certain asset classes (such as real estate leases), as well as the short-term lease policy election offered under the ASUs whereby the Company does not recognize right of use assets and lease liabilities for leases with terms of 12 months or less. The Company did not apply the hindsight practical expedient upon adoption.
As a result of the adoption of the ASUs, the Company recorded an increase to the fiscal 2017 (earliest comparative period) opening retained earnings balance of $4.0 million, inclusive of the tax impact.
The following table presents the impact of adopting the ASUs, as well as the correction of an immaterial error as discussed in “Revision” above, on the Company’s consolidated balance sheet (in thousands):
(1)During the adoption process of the ASUs, the Company identified a lease agreement that was incorrectly accounted for as an impaired lease under ASC 420-Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations in fiscal 2017 and the first quarter of fiscal 2018. Refer to “Revision” above.
(2)Represents recognition of asset held for sale under a sale-leaseback transaction.
(3)Represents reclassification of prepaid rent to operating lease liabilities and other current liabilities (for finance leases).
(4)Represents (i) recognition of finance lease right-of-use assets, partially offset by (ii) derecognition of non-Company owned properties that were capitalized under previously existing build-to-suit accounting policies, (iii) reclassification of construction in progress assets determined to be landlord assets to other non-current assets and (iv) reclassification of initial direct costs related to operating leases to operating lease right-of-use assets.
(5)Represents recognition of operating lease right-of-use assets and corresponding current and non-current lease liabilities. The operating lease right-of-use asset also includes the reclassification of deferred rent and unamortized lease incentives related to operating leases and the reclassification of initial direct costs from property and equipment-net.
(6)Represents recognition of net deferred tax assets related to the adoption of the ASUs.
(7)Primarily represents reclassification from property and equipment-net of construction in progress assets determined to be landlord assets for which the lease has not yet commenced.
(8)Represents a reclassification of an accrual for real estate taxes.
(9)Represents recognition of the current and non-current finance lease liabilities. The other current liabilities line item also includes the reclassification of current obligations associated with leases previously reported as capital leases to finance lease liabilities.
(10)Represents (i) derecognition of liabilities related to non-Company owned properties that were consolidated under previously existing build-to-suit accounting policies and (ii) reclassification of deferred rent and unamortized lease incentives to operating lease right-of-use assets upon adoption of the ASUs.
(11)Represents (i) derecognition of the net lease loss liabilities as such balances were reclassified to operating lease right-of-use assets and operating current and non-current liabilities and (ii) the reclassification of non-current obligations associated with leases previously reported as capital leases to finance lease liabilities.
(12)Represents a decrease to the consolidated net income for fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018, as well as an increase of $4.0 million to beginning fiscal 2017 retained earnings related to the adoption of the ASUs.
Cloud Computing
In August 2018, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2018-15-Intangibles-Goodwill and Other-Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40): Customer’s Accounting for Implementation Costs Incurred in a Cloud Computing Arrangement that is a Service Contract, which amends Accounting Standards Update 2015-05-Customers Accounting for Fees in a Cloud Computing Agreement. The amendments in this ASU more closely align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal use software license). The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted.
The Company will adopt the new accounting standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 using the prospective method. The related assets will be recorded within other non-current assets on the Company’s consolidated balance sheets, and the amortization of assets placed in service will be recorded in cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations on a straight-line basis over the term of the hosting arrangement, which includes reasonably certain renewal periods. The Company is in process of finalizing the adoption of the new accounting standard which is not expected to materially impact the Company’s financial position or results of operations.
Current Expected Credit Losses
In June 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-13-Financial Instruments-Credit Losses: Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments. The ASU amends the impairment model to utilize an expected loss methodology in place of the currently used incurred loss methodology to result in more timely recognition of losses. The guidance in this ASU applies to financial assets measured at amortized cost basis, such as receivables that result from revenue transactions. The ASU is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company is in process of assessing the impact of the new accounting standard.
Income Taxes
In December 2019, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2019-12-Income Taxes (Topic 740): Simplifying the Accounting for Income Taxes. The ASU impacts various topic areas within ASC 740, including accounting for taxes under hybrid tax regimes, accounting for increases in goodwill, allocation of tax amounts to separate company financial statements within a group that files a consolidated tax return, intra period tax allocation, interim period accounting, and accounting for ownership changes in investments, among other minor codification improvements. The guidance in this ASU becomes effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2020. The Company is currently evaluating the effects that the adoption of this new accounting standard will have on its consolidated financial statements.
NOTE 4-PREPAID EXPENSE AND OTHER ASSETS
Prepaid expense and other current assets consist of the following (in thousands):
(2)Refer to Note 18-Commitments and Contingencies.
Other non-current assets consist of the following (in thousands):
NOTE 5-PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
Property and equipment consists of the following (in thousands):
(1)Refer to “Lease Accounting” within Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies and Note 9-Leases.
(2)Leasehold improvements include construction in progress of $16.0 million and $14.7 million as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively.
(3)Includes accumulated amortization related to finance lease right-of-use assets of $92.3 million and $55.5 million as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively. Refer to Note 9-Leases.
The Company recorded depreciation and amortization of property and equipment, excluding amortization for finance lease right-of-use assets, of $63.7 million, $62.6 million and $63.7 million in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
NOTE 6-GOODWILL, TRADENAMES, TRADEMARKS AND DOMAIN NAMES
The following sets forth the fiscal 2019 goodwill, tradenames, trademarks and domain names activity for the RH Segment and Waterworks (in thousands):
(1)Presented net of an impairment charge of $14.6 million recorded in fiscal 2018.
The following sets forth the fiscal 2018 goodwill, tradenames, trademarks and domain names activity for the RH Segment and Waterworks (in thousands):
(1)Refer to “Impairment” within Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies.
(2)Waterworks reporting unit goodwill of $51.1 million recognized upon acquisition in fiscal 2016 was fully impaired as of February 2, 2019, with $17.4 million and $33.7 million impairment recorded in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
(3)Presented net of an impairment charge of $14.6 million recorded in fiscal 2018.
NOTE 7-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following (in thousands):
Other current liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):
(1)Refer to Note 18-Commitments and Contingencies.
NOTE 8-OTHER NON-CURRENT OBLIGATIONS
Other non-current obligations consist of the following (in thousands):
(1)Represents rollover units and profit interests associated with the acquisition of Waterworks. Refer to Note 16-Stock-Based Compensation.
(2)Represents the non-current portion of an incentive payment received in relation to a 5-year service agreement, which will be amortized over the term of the agreement.
NOTE 9-LEASES
Lease costs-net consist of the following (in thousands):
(1)Operating lease costs and amortization of finance lease right-of-use assets are included in cost of goods sold or selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations based on the Company’s policy. Refer to Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies.
(2)Includes short-term operating lease costs which are not material.
(3)Included in interest expense-net on the consolidated statements of operations.
(4)Represents variable lease payments under operating and finance lease agreements, primarily associated with contingent rent based on a percentage of retail sales over contractual levels of $14.6 million, $13.0 million and $13.8 million and charges associated with common area maintenance of $8.9 million, $8.9 million, and $9.5 million in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017, respectively. Other variable costs, such as single lease cost related to variable lease payments based on an index or rate that were not included in the measurement of the initial lease liability and right-of-use asset, were not material in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, and fiscal 2017.
(5)Included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations.
Lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities consist of the following (in thousands):
(1)Finance lease right-of-use assets include capitalized amounts related to the Company’s completed construction activities to design and build leased assets, which are reclassified from other non-current assets upon lease commencement.
(2)Finance lease right-of-use assets are recorded net of accumulated amortization of $92.3 million and $55.5 million as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively.
(3)Current portion of lease liabilities represents the reduction of the related lease liability over the next 12 months.
The maturities of lease liabilities are as follows as of February 1, 2020 (in thousands):
(1)Total lease payments include future obligations for renewal options that are reasonably certain to be exercised and are included in the measurement of the lease liability. Total lease payments exclude $360.9 million of legally binding payments under the noncancellable term for leases signed but not yet commenced as of February 1, 2020.
(2)Calculated using the incremental borrowing rate for each lease at lease commencement.
(3)Excludes future commitments under short-term lease agreements of $0.9 million as of February 1, 2020.
Supplemental information related to leases consists of the following:
Other information related to leases consists of the following (in thousands):
Asset Held for Sale and Sale-Leaseback Transaction
During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, the Company committed to a plan to sell the Yountville Design Gallery, which resulted in a reclassification of such Gallery from property and equipment-net to assets held for sale on the consolidated balance sheets as of February 2, 2019. The Company performed an assessment and determined that based on management’s best estimate of the fair value of such Gallery as of February 2, 2019, it had an impairment of $8.5 million in fiscal 2018 in the RH Segment. In October 2019, the Company executed a sale-leaseback transaction for the Yountville Design Gallery for sales proceeds of $23.5 million, which qualified for sale-leaseback accounting in accordance with ASC 842. Concurrently with the sale, the Company entered into an operating leaseback arrangement with an initial lease term of 15 years and renewal options for up to an additional 30 years. The Company recognized a gain related to the execution of the sale transaction of $1.2 million in fiscal 2019, which was recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations.
NOTE 10-CONVERTIBLE SENIOR NOTES
$350 million 0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024
In September 2019, the Company issued in a private offering $350 million principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2024 (the “2024 Notes”). The 2024 Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as the Trustee. The 2024 Notes will mature on September 15, 2024, unless earlier purchased by the Company or converted. The 2024 Notes will not bear interest, except that the 2024 Notes will be subject to “special interest” in certain limited circumstances in the event of the failure of the Company to perform certain of its obligations under the indenture governing the 2024 Notes. The 2024 Notes are unsecured obligations and do not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Certain events are also considered “events of default” under the 2024 Notes, which may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 2024 Notes, as described in the indenture governing the 2024 Notes. Events of default under the indenture for the 2024 Notes include, among other things, the occurrence of an event of default by us as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries for money borrowed, if that event of default (i) constitutes the failure to pay when due indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount in excess of $20 million and (ii) such event of default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2024 Notes then outstanding.
The initial conversion rate applicable to the 2024 Notes is 4.7304 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2024 Notes, or a total of approximately 1.656 million shares for the total $350 million principal amount. This initial conversion rate is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $211.40 per share, which represents a 25% premium to the $169.12 closing share price on the day the 2024 Notes were priced. The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” as defined in the indenture governing the 2024 Notes, the Company will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elects to convert its 2024 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
Prior to June 15, 2024, the 2024 Notes are convertible only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after December 31, 2019, if, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock on such trading day is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on such trading day; (2) during the five consecutive business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which, for each day of that period, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 2024 Notes for such trading day was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock and the applicable conversion rate on such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate
transactions. As of February 1, 2020, none of these conditions have occurred and, as a result, the 2024 Notes were not convertible as of February 1, 2020. On and after June 15, 2024, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert all or a portion of their 2024 Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the 2024 Notes will be settled, at the Company’s election, in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock. If the Company has not delivered a notice of its election of settlement method prior to the final conversion period it will be deemed to have elected combination settlement with a dollar amount per note to be received upon conversion of $1,000.
The Company may not redeem the 2024 Notes; however, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the 2024 Notes), holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 2024 Notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2024 Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid special interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date.
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company separated the 2024 Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount, represents the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2024 Notes and the fair value of the liability component of the 2024 Notes. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its carrying amount (“debt discount”) will be amortized to interest expense using an effective interest rate of 5.74% over the expected life of the 2024 Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification.
Debt issuance costs related to the 2024 Notes were comprised of discounts upon original issuance of $3.5 million and third party offering costs of $1.3 million. In accounting for the debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the 2024 Notes, the Company allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative values. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected life of the 2024 Notes, and debt issuance costs attributable to the equity component are netted with the equity component in stockholders’ equity (deficit).
Discounts and third party offering costs attributable to the liability component are recorded as a contra-liability and are presented net against the convertible senior notes due 2024 balance on the consolidated balance sheets. During fiscal 2019 the Company recorded $0.2 million related to the amortization of debt issuance costs related to the 2024 Notes.
The carrying value of the 2024 Notes, excluding the discounts upon original issuance and third party offering costs, is as follows (in thousands):
(1)Included in additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recorded interest expense of $5.6 million for the amortization of the debt discount related to the 2024 Notes during fiscal 2019.
2024 Notes-Convertible Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the 2024 Notes and exercise of the overallotment option in September 2019, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions whereby the Company has the option to purchase a total of approximately 1.656 million shares of its common stock at a price of approximately $211.40 per share. The total cost of the convertible note hedge transactions was approximately $91.4 million. In addition, the Company sold warrants whereby the holders of the warrants have the option to purchase a total of approximately 1.656 million shares of the Company’s common stock at a price of $338.24 per share, which represents a 100% premium to the $169.12 closing share price on the day the 2024 Notes were priced. The warrants contain certain adjustment mechanisms whereby the total number of shares to be purchased under such warrants may be increased up to a cap of approximately 3.3 million shares of common stock (which cap may also be subject to adjustment). The Company received approximately $50.2 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and sale of the warrants are intended to offset any actual earnings dilution from the conversion of the 2024 Notes until the Company’s common stock is above approximately $338.24 per share. As these transactions meet certain accounting criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants are recorded in stockholders’ equity, are not accounted for as derivatives and are not remeasured each reporting period. The net costs incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $21.7 million in connection with the debt discount associated with the 2024 Notes and recorded a deferred tax asset of $22.7 million in connection with the convertible note hedge transactions. The deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset are recorded in deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
$335 million 0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023
In June 2018, the Company issued in a private offering $300 million principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2023 and issued an additional $35 million principal amount in connection with the overallotment option granted to the initial purchasers as part of the offering (collectively, the “2023 Notes”). The 2023 Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as the Trustee. The 2023 Notes will mature on June 15, 2023, unless earlier purchased by the Company or converted. The 2023 Notes will not bear interest, except that the 2023 Notes will be subject to “special interest” in certain limited circumstances in the event of the failure of the Company to perform certain of its obligations under the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. The 2023 Notes are unsecured obligations and do not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Certain events are also considered “events of default” under the 2023 Notes, which may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 2023 Notes, as described in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes. Events of default under the indenture for the 2023 Notes include, among other things, the occurrence of an event of default by us as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries for money borrowed, if that event of default (i) constitutes the failure to pay when due indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount in excess of $20 million and (ii) such event of default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2023 Notes then outstanding.
The initial conversion rate applicable to the 2023 Notes is 5.1640 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2023 Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $193.65 per share. The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” as defined in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes, the Company will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elects to convert its 2023 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
Prior to March 15, 2023, the 2023 Notes are convertible only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after September 30, 2018, if, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock on such trading day is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on such trading day; (2) during the five consecutive business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which, for each day of that period, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 2023 Notes for such trading day was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock and the applicable conversion rate on such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. As of February 1, 2020, none of these conditions have occurred and, as a result, the 2023 Notes were not convertible as of February 1, 2020. On and after March 15, 2023, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert all or a portion of their 2023 Notes at any time, regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Upon conversion, the 2023 Notes will be settled, at the Company’s election, in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock. If the Company has not delivered a notice of its election of settlement method prior to the final conversion period it will be deemed to have elected combination settlement with a dollar amount per note to be received upon conversion of $1,000.
The Company may not redeem the 2023 Notes; however, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the 2023 Notes), holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 2023 Notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2023 Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid special interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date.
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for the issuance of the 2023 Notes, the Company separated the 2023 Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount, represents the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2023 Notes and the fair value of the liability component of the 2023 Notes. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its carrying amount (“debt discount”) will be amortized to interest expense using an effective interest rate of 6.35% over the expected life of the 2023 Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification.
Debt issuance costs related to the 2023 Notes were comprised of discounts upon original issuance of $1.7 million and third party offering costs of $4.6 million. In accounting for the debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the 2023 Notes, the Company allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative values. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected life of the 2023 Notes, and debt issuance costs attributable to the equity component are netted with the equity component in stockholders’ equity (deficit).
Discounts and third party offering costs attributable to the liability component are recorded as a contra-liability and are presented net against the convertible senior notes due 2023 balance on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company recorded $0.9 million and $0.5 million related to the amortization of debt issuance costs in fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively, related to the 2023 Notes.
The carrying values of the 2023 Notes, excluding the discounts upon original issuance and third party offering costs, are as follows (in thousands):
(1)Included in additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recorded interest expense of $16.5 million and $9.7 million for the amortization of the debt discount related to the 2023 Notes during fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018, respectively.
2023 Notes-Convertible Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the 2023 Notes and exercise of the overallotment option in June 2018, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions whereby the Company has the option to purchase a total of approximately 1.730 million shares of its common stock at a price of approximately $193.65 per share. The total cost of the convertible note hedge transactions was approximately $91.9 million. In addition, the Company sold warrants whereby the holders of the warrants have the option to purchase a total of approximately 1.730 million shares of the Company’s common stock at a price of $309.84 per share. The warrants contain certain adjustment mechanisms whereby the total number of shares to be purchased under such warrants may be increased up to a cap of approximately 3.5 million shares of common stock (which cap may also be subject to adjustment). The Company received approximately $51.0 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and sale of the warrants are intended to offset any actual earnings dilution from the conversion of the 2023 Notes until the Company’s common stock is above approximately $309.84 per share. As these transactions meet certain accounting criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants are recorded in stockholders’ equity (deficit), are not accounted for as derivatives and are not remeasured each reporting period. The net costs incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $22.3 million in connection with the debt discount associated with the 2023 Notes and recorded a deferred tax asset of $22.5 million in connection with the convertible note hedge transactions. The deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset are recorded in deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
$300 million 0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2020
In June 2015, the Company issued in a private offering $250 million principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2020 and, in July 2015, the Company issued an additional $50 million principal amount pursuant to the exercise of the overallotment option granted to the initial purchasers as part of its June 2015 offering (collectively, the “2020 Notes”). The 2020 Notes are governed by the terms of an indenture between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as the Trustee. The 2020 Notes will mature on July 15, 2020, unless earlier purchased by the Company or converted. The 2020 Notes will not bear interest, except that the 2020 Notes will be subject to “special interest” in certain limited circumstances in the event of the failure of the Company to perform certain of its obligations under the indenture governing the 2020 Notes. The 2020 Notes are unsecured obligations and do not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Certain events are also considered “events of default” under the 2020 Notes, which may result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 2020 Notes, as described in the indenture governing the 2020 Notes. Events of default under the indenture for the 2020 Notes include, among other things, the occurrence of an event of default by us as defined under any mortgage, indenture or instrument under which there may be issued, or by which there may be secured or evidenced, any indebtedness of the Company or any of its significant subsidiaries for money borrowed, if that event of default (i) constitutes the failure to pay when due
indebtedness in the aggregate principal amount in excess of $20 million and (ii) such event of default continues for a period of 30 days after written notice is delivered to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the holders of at least 25% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2020 Notes then outstanding. The 2020 Notes are guaranteed by the Company’s primary operating subsidiary, Restoration Hardware, Inc., as Guarantor. The guarantee is the unsecured obligation of the Guarantor and is subordinated to the Guarantor’s obligations from time to time with respect to its Credit Agreement and ranks equal in right of payment with respect to Guarantor’s other obligations.
The initial conversion rate applicable to the 2020 Notes is 8.4656 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2020 Notes, which is equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $118.13 per share. To the extent the stock price is less than $118.13 per share, the Company is required to settle the par value in cash, subject to the cash settlement averaging period under the indenture. To the extent the stock price is greater than $118.13 per share, the Company may settle the par value at the Company’s election, in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock. The conversion rate will be subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” as defined in the indenture governing the 2020 Notes, the Company will, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elects to convert its 2020 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
Prior to March 15, 2020, the 2020 Notes are convertible only under the following circumstances: (1) during any calendar quarter commencing after September 30, 2015, if, for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the 30 consecutive trading day period ending on the last trading day of the immediately preceding calendar quarter, the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock on such trading day is greater than or equal to 130% of the applicable conversion price on such trading day; (2) during the five consecutive business day period after any ten consecutive trading day period in which, for each day of that period, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of 2020 Notes for such trading day was less than 98% of the product of the last reported sale price of the Company’s common stock and the applicable conversion rate on such trading day; or (3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions. The first condition was satisfied during the calendar quarter ended December 31, 2019 and, accordingly, holders may convert their 2020 Notes during the calendar quarter ending March 31, 2020. Regardless of the foregoing circumstances, on and after March 15, 2020, until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date, holders may convert all or a portion of their 2020 Notes at any time. Upon conversion, the 2020 Notes will be settled, at the Company’s election, in cash, shares of the Company’s common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of the Company’s common stock to the extent the Company’s stock price is greater than $118.13 per share. If the Company has not delivered a notice of its election of settlement method prior to the final conversion period it will be deemed to have elected combination settlement with a dollar amount per note to be received upon conversion of $1,000. We expect to repay the $300 million outstanding principal amount of the convertible notes in cash, whether in connection with a conversion of such notes or repayment at maturity in July 2020.
The Company may not redeem the 2020 Notes; however, upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the 2020 Notes), holders may require the Company to purchase all or a portion of their 2020 Notes for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the 2020 Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid special interest to, but excluding, the fundamental change purchase date.
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for the issuance of the 2020 Notes, the Company separated the 2020 Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount, represents the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2020 Notes and the fair value of the liability component of the 2020 Notes. The debt discount will be amortized to interest expense using an effective interest rate of 6.47% over the expected life of the 2020 Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification.
Debt issuance costs related to the 2020 Notes were comprised of discounts upon original issuance of $3.8 million and third party offering costs of $2.3 million. In accounting for the debt issuance costs related to the issuance of
the 2020 Notes, the Company allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative values. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected life of the 2020 Notes, and debt issuance costs attributable to the equity component are netted with the equity component in stockholders’ equity (deficit).
Discounts and third party offering costs attributable to the liability component are recorded as a contra-liability and are presented net against the convertible senior notes due 2020 balance on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company recorded $1.2 million, $1.1 million and $1.0 million related to the amortization of debt issuance costs in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively, related to the 2020 Notes.
The carrying values of the 2020 Notes, excluding the discounts upon original issuance and third party offering costs, are as follows (in thousands):
(1)Included in additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recorded interest expense of $18.2 million, $17.1 million and $16.0 million for the amortization of the debt discount related to the 2020 Notes during fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
2020 Notes-Convertible Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the 2020 Notes in June 2015 and the exercise in full of the overallotment option in July 2015, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions whereby the Company has the option to purchase a total of approximately 2.540 million shares of its common stock at a price of approximately $118.13 per share. The total cost of the convertible note hedge transactions was approximately $68.3 million. In addition, the Company sold warrants whereby the holders of the warrants have the option to purchase a total of approximately 2.540 million shares of the Company’s common stock at a price of $189.00 per share. The warrants contain certain adjustment mechanisms whereby the total number of shares to be purchased under such warrants may be increased up to a cap of approximately 5.1 million shares of common stock (which cap may also be subject to adjustment). The Company received approximately $30.4 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and sale of the warrants are intended to offset any actual earnings dilution from the conversion of the 2020 Notes until the Company’s common stock is above approximately $189.00 per share. As these transactions meet certain accounting criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants are recorded in stockholders’ equity (deficit), are not accounted for as derivatives and are not remeasured each reporting period. The net costs incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $32.8 million in connection with the debt discount associated with the 2020 Notes and recorded a deferred tax asset of $26.6 million in connection with the convertible note hedge transactions. The deferred tax liability and deferred tax asset are recorded in non-current deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
The provision for income taxes in fiscal 2017 included $1.1 million of income tax benefit as a result of the Tax Act for the provisional re-measurement of the deferred tax asset and liability related to the 2020 Notes for the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%.
$350 million 0.00% Convertible Senior Notes due 2019
In June 2014, the Company issued $350 million principal amount of 0.00% convertible senior notes due 2019 (the “2019 Notes”) in a private offering. The 2019 Notes were governed by the terms of an indenture between the Company and U.S. Bank National Association, as the Trustee. The 2019 Notes did not bear interest, except that the 2019 Notes were subject to “special interest” in certain limited circumstances in the event of the failure of the Company to perform certain of its obligations under the indenture governing the 2019 Notes. The 2019 Notes were unsecured obligations and did not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness or the issuance or repurchase of securities by the Company or any of its subsidiaries. Certain events were also considered “events of default” under the 2019 Notes, which could result in the acceleration of the maturity of the 2019 Notes, as described in the indenture governing the 2019 Notes. The 2019 Notes matured on June 15, 2019.
The initial conversion rate applicable to the 2019 Notes was 8.6143 shares of common stock per $1,000 principal amount of 2019 Notes, which was equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $116.09 per share. The conversion rate was subject to adjustment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, but was not adjusted for any accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon the occurrence of a “make-whole fundamental change” as defined in the indenture governing the 2019 Notes, the Company would, in certain circumstances, increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares for a holder that elected to convert its 2019 Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change.
Under GAAP, certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash on conversion are required to be separately accounted for as liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer’s non-convertible debt borrowing rate. Accordingly, in accounting for the issuance of the 2019 Notes, the Company separated the 2019 Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of a similar liability that does not have an associated convertible feature. The carrying amount of the equity component, which is recognized as a debt discount, represents the difference between the proceeds from the issuance of the 2019 Notes and the fair value of the liability component of the 2019 Notes. The debt discount was amortized to interest expense using an effective interest rate of 4.51% over the expected life of the 2019 Notes. The equity component was not remeasured as long as it continued to meet the conditions for equity classification.
Debt issuance costs related to the 2019 Notes were comprised of discounts and commissions payable to the initial purchasers of $4.4 million and third party offering costs of $1.0 million. In accounting for the debt issuance costs related to the issuance of the 2019 Notes, the Company allocated the total amount incurred to the liability and equity components based on their relative values. Debt issuance costs attributable to the liability component were amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the expected life of the 2019 Notes, and debt issuance costs attributable to the equity component were netted with the equity component in stockholders’ equity (deficit).
Discounts, commissions payable to the initial purchasers and third party offering costs attributable to the liability component were recorded as a contra-liability and were presented net against the convertible senior notes due 2019 balance on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company recorded $0.4 million, $0.9 million and $0.9 million related to the amortization of debt issuance costs in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively, related to the 2019 Notes.
In June 2019, upon the maturity of the 2019 Notes, $350.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 2019 Notes were settled for $349.0 million in cash and 42 shares of common stock. As a result, the Company recognized a gain on extinguishment of debt of $1.0 million during fiscal 2019.
As of February 1, 2020, the 2019 Notes are no longer outstanding. As of February 2, 2019, the carrying value of the 2019 Notes, excluding the discounts and commissions payable to the initial purchasers and third party offering costs, was as follows (in thousands):
(1)Included in additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
The Company recorded interest expense of $5.9 million, $15.1 million and $14.5 million for the amortization of the debt discount related to the 2019 Notes in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
2019 Notes-Convertible Bond Hedge and Warrant Transactions
In connection with the offering of the 2019 Notes, the Company entered into convertible note hedge transactions whereby the Company had the option to purchase a total of approximately 3.015 million shares of its common stock at a price of approximately $116.09 per share. The total cost of the convertible note hedge transactions was approximately $73.3 million. The convertible note hedge terminated upon the maturity date of the 2019 Notes. In addition, the Company sold warrants whereby the holders of the warrants had the option to purchase a total of approximately 3.015 million shares of the Company’s common stock at a price of $171.98 per share. The Company received $40.4 million in cash proceeds from the sale of these warrants. Taken together, the purchase of the convertible note hedges and sale of the warrants were intended to offset any actual dilution from the conversion of the 2019 Notes and to effectively increase the overall conversion price from $116.09 per share to $171.98 per share. As these transactions met certain accounting criteria, the convertible note hedges and warrants were recorded in stockholders’ equity (deficit), were not accounted for as derivatives and were not remeasured each reporting period. The net costs incurred in connection with the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions were recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets.
During fiscal 2019, the Company delivered approximately 167,100 shares upon exercise of the warrants under the terms of the warrant agreements. The warrants expired on December 6, 2019.
The Company recorded a deferred tax liability of $27.5 million in connection with the debt discount associated with the 2019 Notes and recorded a deferred tax asset of $28.6 million in connection with the convertible note hedge transactions. The provision for income taxes in fiscal 2017 included $0.1 million of income tax expense as a result of the Tax Act for the provisional re-measurement of the deferred tax asset and liability related to the 2019 Notes for the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%. The deferred tax liability and deferred tax assets were included in non-current deferred tax assets on the consolidated balance sheets. There is no deferred tax asset or liability remaining as of February 1, 2020 due to the maturity of the 2019 Notes.
NOTE 11-CREDIT FACILITIES
The outstanding balances under the Company’s credit facilities were as follows (in thousands):
(1)Deferred financing fees associated with the asset based credit facility as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019 were $2.6 million and $3.4 million, respectively, and are included in other non-current assets on the consolidated balance sheets. The deferred financing fees are amortized on a straight line basis over the life of the revolving line of credit, which has a maturity date of June 28, 2022.
(2)Represents total equipment security notes secured by certain of the Company’s property and equipment, of which $22.0 million outstanding was included in other current liabilities. The remaining $31.4 million outstanding, included in other non-current obligations on the consolidated balance sheets, has principal payments due of $23.0 million, $7.9 million and $0.5 million in fiscal 2021, fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2023, respectively.
Asset Based Credit Facility & Term Loan Facilities
In August 2011, Restoration Hardware, Inc., along with its Canadian subsidiary, Restoration Hardware Canada, Inc., entered into a credit agreement with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, and certain other lenders (the “Original Credit Agreement”).
On June 28, 2017, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into an eleventh amended and restated credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) among Restoration Hardware, Inc., Restoration Hardware Canada, Inc., various subsidiaries of RH named therein as borrowers or guarantors, the lenders party thereto and Bank of America, N.A. as administrative agent and collateral agent (“First Lien Administrative Agent”), which amended and restated the Original Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement has a revolving line of credit with initial availability of up to $600.0 million, of which $10.0 million is available to Restoration Hardware Canada, Inc., and includes a $200.0 million accordion feature under which the revolving line of credit may be expanded by agreement of the parties from $600.0 million to up to $800.0 million if and to the extent the lenders, whether existing lenders or new lenders, agree to increase their credit commitments. In addition, the Credit Agreement established an $80.0 million last in, last out (“LILO”) term loan facility. The maturity date of the Credit Agreement is June 28, 2022.
In June 2018, the Company repaid the LILO term loan in full. As a result of the repayment, the Company incurred a $0.5 million loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2018, which represents the acceleration of amortization of debt issuance costs. The Company did not incur any prepayment penalties upon the early extinguishment of the LILO term loan.
On June 12, 2018, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into a First Amendment (the “First Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The First Amendment (a) changed the Credit Agreement’s definition of “Eligible In-Transit Inventory” to clarify the requirements to be fulfilled by the borrowers with respect to such in-transit inventory, and (b) clarified that no Default or Event of Default was caused by any prior non-compliance with such requirements with respect to in-transit inventory. Eligible In-Transit Inventory consists of inventory being shipped from vendor locations outside of the United States. Qualifying in-transit inventory is included within the Company’s borrowing base for eligible collateral for purposes of determining the amount of borrowing available to borrowers under the Credit Agreement.
On November 23, 2018, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into a Consent and Second Amendment (the “Second Amendment”) to the Credit Agreement. The Second Amendment included certain clarifying changes to among
other things: (a) address the processing of payments from insurance proceeds in connection with casualty or other insured losses with respect to property or assets of a Loan Party, and (b) add an additional category of permitted restricted payment to allow the lead borrower to make annual restricted payments of up to $3 million per fiscal year to cover payments of certain administrative and other obligations of RH in the ordinary course of business.
On April 4, 2019, Restoration Hardware, Inc., entered into a third amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “Third Amendment”). The Third Amendment, among other things, (a) established a $120.0 million first in, last out (“FILO”) term loan facility, which amount was fully borrowed as of April 4, 2019 and which incurs interest at a rate that is 1.25% greater than the interest rate applicable to the revolving loans provided for under the Credit Agreement at any time, (b) provided for additional permitted indebtedness, as defined in the Credit Agreement, that the loan parties can incur, and (c) modified the borrowing availability under the Credit Agreement in certain circumstances.
The Company repaid the full amount of the FILO term loan as of February 1, 2020. As a result of the repayment, the Company incurred a $0.8 million loss on extinguishment of debt in fiscal 2019, which represents the acceleration of amortization of debt issuance costs. The Company did not incur any prepayment penalties upon the early extinguishment of the FILO term loan.
On May 31, 2019, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into a fourth amendment to the Credit Agreement (the “Fourth Amendment”). The Fourth Amendment, among other things, amended the Credit Agreement to (a) extend the time to deliver monthly financial statements to the lenders for the fiscal months ending February 2019 and March 2019 until June 19, 2019, (b) remove the requirement to deliver monthly financial statements to the lenders for the last fiscal month of any fiscal quarter, and (c) waive any default or event of default under the Credit Agreement relating to the delivery of monthly financial statements or other information to lenders for the fiscal months ending February 2019 and March 2019.
The availability of credit at any given time under the Credit Agreement is limited by reference to a borrowing base formula based upon numerous factors, including the value of eligible inventory and eligible accounts receivable. As a result of the borrowing base formula, actual borrowing availability under the revolving line of credit could be less than the stated amount of the revolving line of credit (as reduced by the actual borrowings and outstanding letters of credit under the revolving line of credit). All obligations under the Credit Agreement are secured by substantially all of the assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, intangible assets, property, equipment, goods and fixtures of Restoration Hardware, Inc., Restoration Hardware Canada, Inc., RH US, LLC, Waterworks Operating Co., LLC and Waterworks IP Co., LLC.
Borrowings under the revolving line of credit are subject to interest, at the borrowers’ option, at either the bank’s reference rate or London Inter-bank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) (or, in the case of the revolving line of credit, the Bank of America “BA” Rate or the Canadian Prime Rate, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement, for Canadian borrowings denominated in Canadian dollars or the United States Index Rate or LIBOR for Canadian borrowings denominated in United States dollars) plus an applicable margin rate, in each case.
The Credit Agreement contains various restrictive covenants, including, among others, limitations on the ability to incur liens, make loans or other investments, incur additional debt, issue additional equity, merge or consolidate with or into another person, sell assets, pay dividends or make other distributions, or enter into transactions with affiliates, along with other restrictions and limitations typical to credit agreements of this type and size. The Credit Agreement also contains various affirmative covenants, including the obligation to deliver notice to the First Lien Administrative Agent following the Company’s obtaining knowledge of any matter that has resulted or could reasonably be expected to result in a “Material Adverse Effect” (as defined in the Credit Agreement).
In addition, under the Credit Agreement, the Company is required to meet specified financial ratios in order to undertake certain actions, and the Company may be required to maintain certain levels of excess availability or meet a specified consolidated fixed-charge coverage ratio (“FCCR”). Subject to certain exceptions, the trigger for the FCCR occurs if the domestic availability under the revolving line of credit is less than the greater of (i) $40.0 million and (ii) 10% of the lesser of (x) the domestic revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement and (y) the domestic revolving borrowing base. If the availability under the Credit Agreement is less than the foregoing amount, then Restoration
Hardware, Inc. is required subject to certain exceptions to maintain an FCCR of at least one to one. As of February 1, 2020, Restoration Hardware, Inc. was in compliance with all applicable financial covenants of the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement requires a daily sweep of all cash receipts and collections to prepay the loans under the agreement while (i) an event of default exists or (ii) the availability under the revolving line of credit for extensions of credit is less than the greater of (A) $40.0 million and (B) 10% of the sum of (a) the lesser of (x) the aggregate revolving commitments under the Credit Agreement and (y) the aggregate revolving borrowing base, plus (b) the lesser of (x) the then outstanding amount of the LILO term loan or (y) the LILO term loan borrowing base.
The Credit Agreement includes customary events of default, in certain cases subject to customary periods to cure. The occurrence of an event of default, following the applicable cure period, would permit the lenders to, among other things, terminate any existing commitments under the Credit Agreement and declare the unpaid principal, accrued and unpaid interest and all other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable.
As of February 1, 2020, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility portion of the Credit Agreement. The availability of credit at any given time under the Credit Agreement is limited by reference to a borrowing base formula based upon numerous factors, including the value of eligible inventory and eligible accounts receivable. As a result of the borrowing base formula, actual borrowing availability under the revolving line of credit could be less than the stated amount of the revolving line of credit (as reduced by the actual borrowings and outstanding letters of credit under the revolving line of credit). Under the terms of such provisions, the amount under the revolving line of credit borrowing base that could be available pursuant to the Credit Agreement as of February 1, 2020 was $321.7 million, net of $13.2 million in outstanding letters of credit.
Second Lien Credit Agreement
On April 10, 2019, Restoration Hardware, Inc., entered into a credit agreement, dated as of April 9, 2019 and effective as of April 10, 2019 (the “Second Lien Credit Agreement”), among (i) Restoration Hardware, Inc., as lead borrower, (ii) the guarantors party thereto, (iii) the lenders party thereto, each of whom were managed or advised by either Benefit Street Partners L.L.C. and its affiliated investment managers or Apollo Capital Management, L.P. and its affiliated investment managers, and (iv) BSP Agency, LLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent (the “Second Lien Administrative Agent”) with respect to a second lien term loan in an aggregate principal amount equal to $200.0 million with a maturity date of April 9, 2024 (the “Second Lien Term Loan”). The second lien term loan of $200.0 million in principal was repaid in full on September 20, 2019. As a result of the repayment, the Company incurred a $6.7 million loss on extinguishment of debt, which includes a prepayment penalty of $4.0 million and acceleration of amortization of debt issuance costs of $2.7 million.
The Second Lien Term Loan bore interest at an annual rate generally based on LIBOR plus 6.50%. This rate was a floating rate that reset periodically based upon changes in LIBOR rates during the life of the Second Lien Term Loan. At the date of the initial borrowing, the rate was set at one-month LIBOR plus 6.50%.
Intercreditor Agreement
On April 10, 2019, in connection with the Second Lien Credit Agreement, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into an Intercreditor Agreement (the “Intercreditor Agreement”), dated as of April 9, 2019 and effective as of April 10, 2019, with the First Lien Administrative Agent and the Second Lien Administrative Agent. The Intercreditor Agreement established various customary inter-lender terms, including, without limitation, with respect to priority of liens, permitted actions by each party, application of proceeds, exercise of remedies in case of default, releases of liens and certain limitations on the amendment of the Credit Agreement and the Second Lien Credit Agreement without the consent of the other party. The Intercreditor Agreement is no longer in effect after repayment of the Second Lien Term Loan on September 20, 2019.
Equipment Loan Facility
On September 5, 2017, Restoration Hardware, Inc. entered into a Master Loan and Security Agreement with Banc of America Leasing & Capital, LLC (“BAL”) pursuant to which BAL and the Company agreed that BAL would finance certain equipment of the Company from time to time, with each such equipment financing to be evidenced by an equipment security note setting forth the terms for each particular equipment loan. Each equipment loan is secured by a purchase money security interest in the financed equipment. As of February 1, 2020, the Company had $53.4 million in aggregate amounts outstanding under the equipment security notes at a weighted-average interest rate of 4.56%. The maturity dates of the equipment security notes vary, but generally have a maturity of three or four years. The Company is required to make monthly installment payments under the equipment security notes.
NOTE 12-FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Certain financial assets and liabilities are required to be carried at fair value. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. In determining the fair value, the Company utilizes market data or assumptions that it believes market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, which would maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs to the extent possible, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs of the valuation technique.
The degree of judgment used in measuring the fair value of financial instruments generally correlates to the level of pricing observability. Pricing observability is impacted by a number of factors, including the type of financial instrument, whether the financial instrument is new to the market and not yet established and the characteristics specific to the transaction. Financial instruments with readily available active quoted prices for which fair value can be measured generally will have a higher degree of pricing observability and a lesser degree of judgment used in measuring fair value. Conversely, financial instruments rarely traded or not quoted will generally have less, or no, pricing observability and a higher degree of judgment used in measuring fair value.
The Company’s financial assets and liabilities measured and reported at fair value are classified and disclosed in one of the following categories:
●Level 1-Quoted prices are available in active markets for identical investments as of the reporting date.
●Level 2-Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the reporting date, and fair value is determined through the use of models or other valuation methodologies.
●Level 3-Pricing inputs are unobservable for the investment and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the investment. The inputs used in the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation.
A financial instrument’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.
Fair Value Measurements-Recurring
Amounts reported as cash and equivalents, receivables, and accounts payable and accrued expenses approximate fair value due to the short-term nature of activity within these accounts. The estimated fair value of the asset based credit facility approximates cost as the interest rate associated with the facility is variable and resets
frequently. The estimated fair value and carrying value of the 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes were as follows (in thousands):
(1)Carrying value represents the principal amount less the equity component of the 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes classified in stockholders’ equity (deficit), and does not exclude the discounts upon original issuance, discounts and commissions payable to the initial purchasers and third party offering costs, as applicable.
(2)The 2019 Notes matured on June 15, 2019.
The fair value of each of the 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes was determined based on inputs that are observable in the market or that could be derived from, or corroborated with, observable market data, including the trading price of the Company’s convertible notes, when available, the Company’s stock price and interest rates based on similar debt issued by parties with credit ratings similar to the Company (Level 2).
Fair Value Measurements-Non-Recurring
The fair value of the Waterworks reporting unit and tradename as of February 2, 2019 was determined based on unobservable (Level 3) inputs and valuation techniques, as discussed in “Impairment” within Note 3-Significant Accounting Policies. The fair value of the asset held for sale as of February 2, 2019 was determined based on an appraisal prepared using unobservable (Level 3) inputs and valuation techniques.
NOTE 13-INCOME TAXES
The United States enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “Tax Act”) on December 22, 2017, which had a significant impact to the Company’s provision for income taxes as of and for the years ended February 2, 2019 and February 3, 2018. The Tax Act included a number of changes to existing U.S. tax laws that impact the Company, including the reduction of the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017.
Reduction of the U.S. Corporate Income Tax Rate
The Company measures deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will apply in the years in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or paid. Accordingly, the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities were re-measured to reflect the reduction in the U.S. corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, resulting in a provisional $6.1 million increase in income tax expense for the year ended February 3, 2018 and a corresponding provisional $6.1 million decrease in net deferred tax assets as of February 3, 2018. The Company completed the accounting for re-measurement of its deferred tax assets and liabilities as of February 2, 2019, and recorded $0.5 million to income tax expense and a corresponding $0.5 million decrease in net deferred tax assets as of February 2, 2019. The cumulative impact to the Company’s provision for income tax expense in fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018 for the re-measurement of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities as result of the Tax Act was $6.6 million.
Transition Tax on Foreign Earnings
The Company recognized a provisional income tax expense of $1.0 million for the year ended February 3, 2018 related to the one-time transition tax on indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings. The Company completed its
computation of transition tax liability in 2018 and did not recognize additional income tax expense or benefit for the year ended February 2, 2019. The cumulative impact to the Company’s provision for income tax expense for the one-time transition tax on indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings as result of the Tax Act was $1.0 million.
The following is a summary of the income before income taxes (in thousands):
The following is a summary of the income tax expense (benefit) (in thousands):
A reconciliation of the federal statutory tax rate to the Company’s effective tax rate is as follows:
Significant components of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):
A reconciliation of the valuation allowance is as follows (in thousands):
The Company has recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities based upon estimates of their realizable value, such estimates are based upon likely future tax consequences. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, the Company considers both positive and negative evidence related to the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets. If, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized, the Company records a valuation allowance.
As of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, the Company had $1.0 million and $1.6 million, respectively, in valuation allowances against deferred tax assets in certain state and foreign jurisdictions due to historical losses.
As of February 1, 2020, the Company had state net operating loss carryovers of $6.5 million and foreign net operating loss carryovers of $8.2 million. The state net operating loss carryovers will begin to expire in 2022, and the foreign net operating loss carryovers will begin to expire in 2023. Internal Revenue Code Section 382 and similar state rules place a limitation on the amount of taxable income which can be offset by net operating loss carryforwards after a change in ownership (generally greater than 50% change in ownership). The Company cannot give any assurances that it will not undergo an ownership change in the future resulting in further limitations on utilization of net operating losses.
A reconciliation of the exposures related to unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in thousands):
As of February 1, 2020, the Company has $8.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $7.8 million would reduce income tax expense and the effective tax rate, if recognized. The remaining unrecognized tax benefits would offset other deferred tax assets, if recognized. In October 2017, the Company filed an amended federal tax return claiming a $5.4 million refund, however, no income tax benefit was recorded during fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 or fiscal 2017 given the technical nature and amount of the refund claim. An income tax benefit related to this refund claim could be recorded in a future period upon settlement with the respective taxing authority. As of February 1, 2020, the Company has $6.3 million of exposures related to unrecognized tax benefits that are expected to decrease in the next 12 months.
The Company accounts for interest and penalties related to exposures as a component of income tax expense. The Company had interest accruals of $0.5 million associated with exposures as of both February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively.
The Company is subject to taxation in the United States and various states and foreign jurisdictions. As of February 1, 2020, the Company is subject to examination by the tax authorities for fiscal 2015 through fiscal 2018. With few exceptions, as of February 1, 2020, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state, local, or foreign examinations by tax authorities for years before fiscal 2015.
NOTE 14-NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE
The weighted-average shares used for net income (loss) per share are as follows:
(1)The 2019 Notes, 2020 Notes, 2023 Notes and 2024 Notes have an impact on the Company’s dilutive share count beginning at stock prices of $116.09 per share, $118.13 per share, $193.65 per share and $211.40 per share, respectively. The 2019 Notes matured on June 15, 2019 and did not have an impact of the Company’s dilutive share count post-maturity.
The following number of options and restricted stock units were excluded from the calculation of diluted net income (loss) per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive:
NOTE 15-SHARE REPURCHASES AND SHARE RETIREMENTS
$950 Million Share Repurchase Program
On October 10, 2018, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $700.0 million. In fiscal 2018, the Company repurchased approximately 2.0 million shares of its common stock under this share repurchase program at an average price of $122.10 per share, for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $250.0 million. Subsequent to the repurchases under this share repurchase program in fiscal 2018, the initial $700.0 million authorization amount was replenished by the Board of Directors on March 25, 2019 (as replenished, the $950 million Repurchase Program”). In fiscal 2019, the Company repurchased approximately 2.2 million shares of its common stock under the $950 million Repurchase Program at an average price of $115.36 per share, for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $250.0 million. As of February 1, 2020, there was $450.0 million remaining for future share repurchases under this program.
$700 Million Share Repurchase Program
On May 2, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $700 million (the “$700 Million Repurchase Program”). Under the $700 Million Repurchase Program, the Company repurchased approximately 12.4 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $56.60 per share, for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $700 million in fiscal 2017. As the $700 Million Repurchase Program was completed during fiscal 2017, there will be no repurchases in future periods under this repurchase authorization.
$300 Million Share Repurchase Program
On February 21, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program of up to $300 million (the “$300 Million Repurchase Program”). Under the $300 Million Repurchase Program, the Company repurchased approximately 7.8 million shares of its common stock at an average price of $38.24 per share, for an aggregate repurchase amount of approximately $300 million in fiscal 2017. As the $300 Million Repurchase Program was completed during fiscal 2017, there will be no repurchases in future periods under this repurchase authorization.
Share Repurchases Under Equity Plans
As of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, the aggregate unpaid principal amount of the notes payable for share repurchases was $18.7 million and $19.6 million, respectively. As of February 1, 2020, $18.7 million was included in other non-current obligations on the consolidated balance sheets. As of February 2, 2019, $0.9 million and $18.7 million were included in other current liabilities and other non-current obligations on the consolidated balance sheets, respectively. The Company recorded interest expense on the outstanding notes of $0.9 million, $1.0 million and $1.0 million in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
Of the $18.7 million and $19.6 million notes payable for share repurchases outstanding as of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, respectively, $15.5 million was due to a current board member of the Company.
Share Retirements
In fiscal 2019, the Company retired 2,170,154 shares of its common stock related to shares it had repurchased under the $950 Million Repurchase Program. As a result of this retirement, the Company reclassified a total of $250.3 million from treasury stock, of which $13.2 million was allocated to additional paid-in capital and $237.1 million was allocated to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity (deficit) as of February 1, 2020.
In fiscal 2018, the Company retired 22,267,711 shares of its common stock related to shares it had repurchased under the $300 Million Repurchase Program, $700 Million Repurchase Program and $950 Million Repurchase Program.
As a result of this retirement, the Company reclassified a total of $1,250.3 million from treasury stock, of which $591.5 million was allocated to additional paid-in capital and $658.8 million was allocated to retained earnings (accumulated deficit) on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity (deficit) as of February 2, 2019.
In fiscal 2017, the Company retired 294,888 shares of its common stock related to shares it had repurchased under the Company’s equity plans. As a result of this retirement, the Company reclassified a total of $19.5 million from treasury stock, all of which was allocated to additional paid-in capital on the consolidated balance sheets and consolidated statements of shareholders’ equity (deficit) as of February 3, 2018.
There was no impact on the consolidated statements of operations or cash flows related to these share retirement activities.
NOTE 16-STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION
The Company estimates the value of equity grants based upon an OPM and recognizes this estimated value as compensation expense over the vesting periods. The Company recognizes expense associated with performance-based awards when it becomes probable that the performance condition will be met. Once it becomes probable that an award will vest, the Company recognizes compensation expense equal to the number of shares which are probable to vest multiplied by the fair value of the related shares measured at the grant date.
Stock-based compensation expense is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense of $21.8 million, $24.0 million and $50.7 million in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. No stock-based compensation cost has been capitalized in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
2012 Stock Incentive Plan and 2012 Stock Option Plan
The Restoration Hardware 2012 Stock Incentive Plan (the “Stock Incentive Plan”) was adopted on November 1, 2012. The Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options to the Company’s employees, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, dividend equivalent rights, cash-based awards and any combination thereof to the Company’s employees, directors and consultants and the Company’s parent and subsidiary corporations’ employees, directors and consultants.
The Restoration Hardware 2012 Stock Option Plan (the “Option Plan”) was adopted on November 1, 2012 and on such date 6,829,041 fully vested options were granted under this plan to certain of the Company’s employees and advisors. Aside from these options granted on November 1, 2012, no other awards will be granted under the Option Plan.
As of February 2, 2019, there were a total of 1,419,552 shares issuable under the Stock Incentive Plan. On February 4, 2019, an additional 409,556 shares became issuable under the Stock Incentive Plan in accordance with the Stock Incentive Plan evergreen provision, increasing the total number of shares issuable under the Stock Incentive Plan to 1,829,108. Awards under the plans reduce the number of shares available for future issuance. Cancellations and forfeitures of awards previously granted under the Stock Incentive Plan increase the number of shares available for future issuance. Cancellations and forfeitures of awards previously granted under the Option Plan are immediately retired and are no longer available for future issuance.
The number of shares available for future issuance under the Stock Incentive Plan as of February 1, 2020 was 1,630,107. Shares issued as a result of award exercises under the Stock Incentive Plan and Option Plan will be funded with the issuance of new shares. On February 3, 2020, an additional 384,734 shares became issuable under the Stock Incentive Plan in accordance with the Stock Incentive Plan evergreen provision.
2012 Stock Incentive Plan and 2012 Stock Option Plan-Stock Options
A summary of stock option activity under the Stock Incentive Plan and the Option Plan is as follows:
The fair value of stock options issued was estimated on the date of grant using the following assumptions:
A summary of additional information about stock options is as follows:
Information about stock options outstanding, vested or expected to vest, and exercisable as of February 1, 2020 is as follows:
The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding, options vested or expected to vest, and options exercisable as of February 1, 2020 was $1,073.5 million, $1,035.6 million, and $891.5 million, respectively. Stock options exercisable as of February 1, 2020 had a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 4.10 years.
The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense for stock options of $14.0 million, $13.6 million and $37.5 million in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. The fiscal 2017 expense of $37.5 million
includes the $23.9 million of expense associated with the option grant to Mr. Friedman in May 2017. Refer to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Option Grant below. As of February 1, 2020, the total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested options was $35.5 million, which is expected to be recognized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average period of 3.13 years.
2012 Stock Incentive Plan-Restricted Stock Awards
The Company grants restricted stock awards, which include restricted stock and restricted stock units, to its employees and members of its Board of Directors. A summary of restricted stock award activity is as follows:
A summary of additional information about restricted stock awards is as follows:
The Company recorded stock-based compensation expense for restricted stock awards of $7.3 million, $10.0 million and $12.8 million in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. As of February 1, 2020, the total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock awards was $5.5 million, which is expected to be recognized on a straight-line basis over a weighted-average period of 1.47 years.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Option Grant
On May 2, 2017, the Company’s Board of Directors granted Mr. Friedman an option to purchase 1,000,000 shares of the Company’s common stock with an exercise price equal to $50 per share.
The option contains dual-condition restrictions consisting of both time-based service restrictions over four years and performance-based restrictions linked to achieving the Company’s common stock price objectives of $100, $125 and $150 per share. The option is fully vested on the date of grant but the shares underlying the option remain subject to transfer restrictions to the extent the performance-based and time-based requirements have not been met. The option resulted in a non-cash stock compensation charge of $23.9 million in fiscal 2017, which is included in the $37.5 million stock-based compensation expense for stock options recorded in fiscal 2017 discussed above.
Time-Based Restrictions
The time-based restrictions are measured over an initial four year service period from the date of the award and these restrictions will lapse at the end of each of these first four years at a rate of 250,000 shares per year if (i) Mr. Friedman remains employed at the end of such year, and (ii) the stock price goals have been achieved in such year as described further below.
Performance-Based Restrictions
The stock price objectives are measured each year and are set at prices for the Company’s common stock of $100, $125 and $150 per share. If all three stock price objectives are met in the first performance year, restrictions will
lapse as to 250,000 shares in aggregate at the end of such year, with 83,333 shares tied to a $100 price per share, 83,333 shares tied to a $125 price per share and 83,334 shares tied to a $150 price per share.
The same price performance tests are applied in the second year of performance such that restrictions will lapse for an additional 250,000 shares at the end of the second year and then again as to an additional 250,000 shares at the end of each of the third and fourth years so long as Mr. Friedman remains employed at the end of each year.
To the extent that any of the price performance objectives is not reached within one of these first four performance years, the stock price objective can be achieved in any subsequent year until the 8th anniversary of the date of grant.
Rollover Units
In connection with the acquisition of Waterworks, $1.5 million rollover units in the Waterworks subsidiary (the “Rollover Units”) were recorded as part of the transaction. The Rollover Units are subject to the terms of the Waterworks LLC agreement, including redemption rights at an amount equal to the greater of (i) the $1.5 million remitted as consideration in the business combination or (ii) an amount based on the percentage interest represented in the overall valuation of the Waterworks subsidiary (the “Appreciation Rights”). The Appreciation Rights are measured at fair value and are subject to fair value measurements during the expected life of the Rollover Units, with changes to fair value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of the Appreciation Rights is determined based on an OPM. The Company did not record any expense related to the Appreciation Rights during fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 or fiscal 2017. As of both February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, the liability associated with the Rollover Units and related Appreciation Rights was $1.5 million, which is included in other non-current obligations on the consolidated balance sheets.
Profit Interests
In connection with the acquisition of Waterworks, profit interests units in the Waterworks subsidiary (the “Profit Interests”) were issued to certain Waterworks associates. The Profit Interests are measured at their grant date fair value and expensed on a straight-line basis over their expected life, or five years. The Profit Interests are subject to fair value measurements during their expected life, with changes to fair value recorded in the consolidated statements of operations. The fair value of the Profit Interests is determined based on an OPM. The Company recorded $0.5 million, $0.4 million and $0.4 million related to the Profit Interests in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively, which is included in selling, general and administrative expenses on the consolidated statements of operations. As of February 1, 2020 and February 2, 2019, the liability associated with the Profit Interests was $1.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively, which is included in other non-current obligations on the consolidated balance sheets.
NOTE 17-EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS
The Company has a 401(k) plan for its employees who meet certain service and age requirements. Participants may contribute up to 50% of their salaries limited to the maximum allowed by the Internal Revenue Service regulations. The Company, at its discretion, may contribute funds to the 401(k) plan. The Company made no contributions to the 401(k) plan during fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018, or fiscal 2017.
NOTE 18-COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES
Commitments
The Company had no material off balance sheet commitments as of February 1, 2020.
Contingencies
The Company is involved in lawsuits, claims and proceedings incident to the ordinary course of its business. These disputes are increasing in number as the business expands and the Company grows larger. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. As a result, the outcome of matters in which the Company is involved could result in unexpected
expenses and liability that could adversely affect the Company’s operations. In addition, any claims against the Company, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources.
The Company reviews the need for any loss contingency reserves and establishes reserves when, in the opinion of management, it is probable that a matter would result in liability, and the amount of loss, if any, can be reasonably estimated. Generally, in view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of those matters, particularly in cases in which claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages, it is not possible to determine whether a liability has been incurred or to reasonably estimate the ultimate or minimum amount of that liability until the case is close to resolution, in which case no reserve is established until that time. When and to the extent that the Company does establish a reserve, there can be no assurance that any such recorded liability for estimated losses will be for the appropriate amount, and actual losses could be higher or lower than what the Company accrues from time to time. The Company believes that the ultimate resolution of its current matters will not have a material adverse effect on its consolidated financial statements.
Securities Class Action
On February 2, 2017, City of Miami General Employees’ & Sanitation Employees’ Retirement Trust filed a class action complaint in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, against the Company, Gary Friedman, and Karen Boone. On March 16, 2017, Peter J. Errichiello, Jr. filed a similar class action complaint in the same forum and against the same parties. On April 26, 2017, the court consolidated the two actions. The consolidated action is captioned In re RH, Inc. Securities Litigation. An amended consolidated complaint was filed in June 2017 asserting claims under sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”). The complaint asserts claims purportedly on behalf of a class of purchasers of Company common stock from March 26, 2015 to June 8, 2016. The alleged misstatements relate to statements regarding the roll out of the RH Modern product line and the Company’s inventory levels. The complaint seeks class certification, monetary damages, and other appropriate relief, including an award of costs and attorneys’ fees. On March 21, 2019, the Company and the individual defendants in the case entered into a binding memorandum of understanding to settle the case. The settlement amount is $50 million, which was funded entirely by the Company’s insurance carriers. On May 6, 2019, the plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of the proposed settlement together with a settlement agreement executed by both parties. The settlement agreement was subject to customary conditions including court approval following notice to the Company’s shareholders, and a hearing at which time the court will consider the fairness, reasonableness and adequacy of the settlement. On June 21, 2019, the court issued an order preliminarily approving the settlement. The court granted final approval of the settlement on October 25, 2019.
As a result of signing the settlement agreement in fiscal 2018, the Company recorded a provision for legal settlement and unpaid legal fees for $50 million within other current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets as of February 2, 2019. Additionally, the Company recorded a litigation insurance recovery receivable of $50 million as of February 2, 2019 within prepaid expense and other current assets on the consolidated balance sheets, which represented the estimated insurance claims proceeds from the Company’s insurance carriers.
As a result of the court approval and adjudication of the claims in fiscal 2019, as well as the Company’s insurance carriers funding the settlement amount, the Company has derecognized the provision for legal settlement and unpaid legal fees within other current liabilities and the associated litigation insurance recovery receivable on the consolidated balance sheets as of February 1, 2020, which settlement resolved all of the claims that were or could have been brought in the action.
Shareholder Derivative Lawsuit
On April 24, 2018, purported Company shareholder David Magnani filed a purported shareholder derivative suit in the United States District Court, Northern District of California, captioned Magnani v. Friedman et al. (No. 18-cv-02452). On June 29, 2018, Hosrof Izmirliyan filed a similar purported shareholder derivative complaint in the same forum, captioned Izmirliyan v. Friedman et al. (No. 18-cv-03930). On July 29, 2018, the court consolidated both derivative actions, and the consolidated action is captioned In re RH Shareholder Derivative Litigation. On August 24, 2018, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint that names RH as a nominal defendant and Gary Friedman, Karen Boone, Carlos Alberini, Keith Belling, Eri Chaya, Mark Demilio, Katie Mitic, Ali Rowghani and Leonard Schlesinger as
defendants. The allegations substantially track those in the securities class action described above. Plaintiffs bring claims against all individual defendants under Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act, as well as claims for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and waste of corporate assets. The plaintiffs also allege insider trading and misappropriation of information claims against two of the individual defendants. The amended complaint seeks monetary damages, corporate governance changes, restitution, and an award of costs and attorneys’ fees. The Company believes that plaintiffs lack standing to bring this derivative action. On September 28, 2018, the Company filed a motion to stay proceedings and a motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint. On January 23, 2019, the court granted the motion to stay the case pending resolution of the securities class action discussed above. On March 19, 2020, the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation, which agreement is subject to the finalization of a stipulation of settlement, and certain conditions, including approval by the Company’s board of directors, and approval by the Court. The settlement involves certain non-monetary terms as well as payment of the plaintiffs’ attorneys’ legal fees, which payment is expected to be funded by the Company’s insurance carriers.
NOTE 19-SEGMENT REPORTING
The Company defines reportable and operating segments on the same basis that it uses to evaluate performance internally by the CODM. The Company has determined that the Chief Executive Officer is its CODM.
The Company has two operating segments: RH Segment and Waterworks. The two operating segments include all sales channels accessed by the Company’s customers, including sales through catalogs, websites, stores, and the commercial channel.
The Company’s two operating segments are strategic business units that offer products for the home furnishings customer. While RH Segment and Waterworks have a shared management team and customer base, the Company has determined that their results cannot be aggregated as they do not share similar economic characteristics, as well as due to other quantitative factors.
The Company uses operating income to evaluate segment profitability. Operating income is defined as net income before interest expense-net, goodwill and tradename impairment, loss on extinguishment of debt-net and income tax expense.
Segment Information
The following table presents the statements of operations metrics reviewed by the CODM to evaluate performance internally or as required under ASC 280-Segment Reporting (in thousands):
The following table presents the balance sheet metrics as required under ASC 280-Segment Reporting (in thousands):
(1)The Waterworks reporting unit goodwill of $51.1 million recognized upon acquisition in fiscal 2016 was fully impaired as of February 2, 2019, with $17.4 million and $33.7 million impairment recorded in fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively.
(2)The Waterworks reporting unit tradename is presented net of an impairment charge of $14.6 million recorded in fiscal 2018.
The Company uses segment operating income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Segment operating income excludes (i) asset impairments and lease losses, (ii) severance costs associated with a reorganizations, (iii) product recall accruals and adjustments-net, (iv) asset held for sale gain (loss), (v) favorable legal settlements, net of legal expenses, (vi) disposals of inventory and property and equipment, lease related charges, inventory transfer costs and other costs and adjustments associated with distribution center closures, (vii) non-cash amortization of the inventory fair value adjustment recorded in connection with the acquisition of Waterworks, (viii) a non-cash compensation charge related to a fully vested option grant made to Mr. Friedman in May 2017, (ix) the release of the remaining reserve for potential claims regarding anti-dumping duties which the Company believes have lapsed and (x) the gain on sale of building and land for one of the Company’s previously owned retail galleries. These items are excluded from segment operating income in order to provide better transparency of segment operating results. Accordingly, these items are not presented by segment because they are excluded from the segment profitability measure that the CODM and management reviews.
The following table presents segment operating income and income before income taxes (in thousands):
The Company classifies its sales into furniture and non-furniture product lines. Furniture includes both indoor and outdoor furniture. Non-furniture includes lighting, textiles, fittings, fixtures, surfaces, accessories and home décor. Net revenues in each category were as follows (in thousands):
The Company is domiciled in the United States and primarily operates its retail and outlet stores in the United States. As of February 1, 2020, the Company operates 4 retail and 2 outlet stores in Canada and 1 retail store in the U.K. Revenues from Canadian and U.K. operations, and the long-lived assets in Canada and the U.K., are not material to the Company. Canada and U.K. geographic revenues are based upon revenues recognized at the retail store locations in the respective country.
No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company’s revenues in fiscal 2019, fiscal 2018 or fiscal 2017.
NOTE 20-SUBSEQUENT EVENT
In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of COVID-19 as a pandemic, which continues to spread throughout the United States and globally. The COVID-19 health crisis poses significant and widespread risks to the Company’s business as well as to the business environment and the markets in which the Company operates. In response to the public health crisis posed by COVID-19, effective from March 17, 2020, the Company temporarily closed its retail locations for an indeterminate period of time. Although the Company continues to serve its customers virtually through its Gallery representatives and designers, as well as its online websites, the Company’s business operations are being substantially affected by applicable regulatory restrictions including stay-at-home requirements applicable in California where its corporate headquarters is located. The Company’s decision to reopen retail locations will be affected by a number of factors including applicable regulatory restrictions and there is substantial uncertainty regarding the manner and timing in which the Company can return some or all of its business to more normal business operations. The Company may face longer term closure requirements and other operational restrictions with respect to some or all of its physical locations for prolonged periods of time due to, among other factors, evolving and increasingly stringent federal, state and local restrictions including shelter-in-place orders. Even once the Company is able to reopen closed physical locations, changes in consumer behavior and health concerns may continue to impact consumer demand for the Company’s products and customer traffic at its Galleries, restaurants and outlets and may make it more difficult to staff its business operations. As a result of these developments, the Company expects an unfavorable impact on its sales, results of operations and cash flows in fiscal 2020.
The Company has already experienced significant disruption to its business as a result of the rapid development of COVID-19 and the corresponding reduction in sales associated with its retail location closures. The Company may face longer term closure requirements with respect to some or all of its physical locations for prolonged periods of time due to, among other factors, evolving and increasingly stringent federal, state and local restrictions and shelter-in-place orders. Even once the Company is able to reopen its physical locations, changes in consumer behavior and health concerns may continue to impact customer traffic at the Company’s retail locations and may make it more difficult to staff these locations. Additionally, customer purchasing patterns are influenced by economic factors including the health of the stock market and the Company has correlated previous downturns in the stock market with a reduction in consumer demands for its products. Accordingly, adverse conditions and events have occurred that will impact the Company’s operations and liquidity.
The Company has relied on cash flows from operations, net cash proceeds from the issuance of the convertible senior notes, as well as borrowings under credit facilities as primary sources of liquidity. The current events and economic conditions are significant in relation to the Company’s ability to fund its business operations, as well as debt repayments when due, such as the $300 million convertible senior notes maturing in July 2020 and payments under equipment promissory notes. The Company expects to repay the $300 million outstanding principal amount of the convertible notes in cash, whether in connection with a conversion of such notes or repayment at maturity in July 2020.
In response to the impact of COVID-19, the Company is implementing a number of measures to minimize cash outlays, including managing workforce costs, delaying planned capital expenditures, deferring new business introductions, adjusting the timing and circulation of Source Books and minimizing discretionary expenses. The Company plans to utilize its asset based credit facility, and the Company may pursue other sources of capital that may include other forms of external financing, in order to increase its cash position and preserve financial flexibility in response to the uncertainty in the United States and global markets resulting from COVID-19. Refer to Note 10-Convertible Senior Notes and Note 11-Credit Facilities for further information on the terms and conditions of the
Company’s outstanding debt agreements. The Company had outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement of $35.0 million as of March 27, 2020 and the amount under the revolving line of credit borrowing base that could be available pursuant to the Credit Agreement was $307.9 million, net of $13.2 million in outstanding letters of credit. The Company believes that these actions mitigate risks arising from COVID-19 and will be sufficient to repay the Company’s debt obligations as they become due, meet working capital requirements and fulfill other capital needs for more than the next 12 months.
NOTE 21-SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
Quarterly financial data for fiscal 2019 and fiscal 2018 are set forth below (in thousands, except share and per share amounts):
Item 9.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: fin
- Context ID: fb35cd4cf86a54b65f85317f08baa161
- Approx. Length: 36554 characters