# Context

Passage 1:
I'm Feelin' U
"I'm Feelin' U" is a 2007 song by the musician CeCe Peniston. The song was originally released in February on the partially mixed dance compilation Miami 2007, a part of Defected In The House series, that featured overall thirty-eight tracks by various artists and was issued on ITH Records.
In May 2007, "I'm Feelin' U" was released also on single on Soulfuric Recordings with four remixes, of which one was produced also by Ron Carroll. The rest three were mixed by DJ Fudge and Brian Tappert.
The title was available also in a digital format, as a virtual single for a direct download, and became the tenth most downloaded track of 2007 at Traxsource, an independent dance music digital downloads site in USA.

Credits and personnel
CeCe Peniston – lead vocal, writer
Ron Carroll – writer, remix, producer
Stéphane Juif (aka DJ Fudge) – remix, arranger, producer
Brian Tappert – remix, keyboards, drums, additional programming
Matt Hennessy – engineer
Rob "Diggy" Morrison – additional keyboards
Alex Finkine – guitar
Kris Anderson – recording vocals

Track listings
12", US, #SFR 0033"I'm Feelin' U" (Ron Carroll's Original BMC Vocal) – 7:23
"I'm Feelin' U" (B Room Dub) – 6:10
"I'm Feelin' U" (Fudge Main Remix) – 6:17
"I'm Feelin' U" (Subsonic Fudge Dub) – 5:56MD, US, #SFR0033
MCD, US, TP, #SFR0033"I'm Feelin' U" (Ron Carroll's Original BMC Vocal) – 7:23
"I'm Feelin' U" (Fudge Main Remix) – 6:17
"I'm Feelin' U" (Subsonic Fudge Dub) – 5:56
"I'm Feelin' U" (B Room Dub) – 6:10
Passage 2:
The Goodies
The Goodies were a trio of British comedians: Tim Brooke-Taylor (17 July 1940–12 April 2020), Graeme Garden (b. 18 February 1943) and Bill Oddie (b. 7 July 1941). The trio created, wrote for and performed in their eponymous television comedy show from 1970 until 1982, combining sketches and situation comedy.

Beginnings
The three actors met each other while undergraduates at the University of Cambridge, where Brooke-Taylor (Pembroke) was a law student, Garden (Emmanuel) was studying medicine and Oddie (Pembroke) was reading English. Their contemporaries included Graham Chapman, John Cleese and Eric Idle, who later became members of Monty Python, and with whom they became close friends. Brooke-Taylor and Cleese studied together and swapped lecture notes, for they were both law students, but at different colleges within the university. All three Goodies became members of the Cambridge University Footlights Club, with Brooke-Taylor becoming president in 1963, and Garden succeeding him as president in 1964.In 1965, Eric Idle succeeded Garden as Footlights Club president. Idle had initially become aware of the Footlights when he auditioned for a "smoker concert" at Pembroke College in front of Brooke-Taylor and Oddie.

Career before The Goodies
Brooke-Taylor, Garden and Oddie were cast members of the 1960s BBC radio comedy show I'm Sorry, I'll Read That Again, which also featured John Cleese, David Hatch and Jo Kendall, and lasted until 1973.  I'm Sorry, I'll Read That Again resulted from the 1963 Cambridge University Footlights Club revue A Clump of Plinths. After having its title changed to Cambridge Circus, the revue went on to play in the West End in London, England, followed by a tour of New Zealand, then on Broadway in New York City (including an appearance on the Ed Sullivan Show).
They also took part in various TV shows with other people, including Brooke-Taylor in At Last the 1948 Show (with Cleese, Chapman and Marty Feldman). Brooke-Taylor also took part in Marty (with Marty Feldman, John Junkin and Roland MacLeod). In 1968 Brooke-Taylor appeared with Cleese, Michael Palin and Graham Chapman in How to Irritate People. Garden and Oddie took part in Twice a Fortnight (with Michael Palin, Terry Jones and Jonathan Lynn), before Brooke-Taylor, Garden, and Oddie worked on the late-1960s TV show Broaden Your Mind (of which only about ten minutes survives).

The Goodies television series
The original BBC television series ran from November 1970 to February 1980 on BBC 2, with 67 half-hour episodes and two forty-five-minute Christmas specials. The series was created by Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie, and originally co-written by all three, with Oddie providing the music for the show. Later episodes were co-written by Garden and Oddie.
It was one of the first shows in the UK to use chroma key and one of the first to use stop-motion techniques in a live action format. Other effects include hand editing for repeated movement, mainly used to make animals "talk" or "sing", and play speed effects as used in the episode "Kitten Kong". In the series, the threesome travelled on, and frequently fell off, a three-seater bicycle known to them as a 'trandem'.In September 1978, the trio appeared in character in an episode of the BBC1 television game show Star Turn Challenge, presented by Bernard Cribbins, in which teams of celebrities competed in acting games. Their opponents were three members of the cast of The Liver Birds, Nerys Hughes, Elizabeth Estensen and Michael Angelis. They also presented the Christmas 1976 edition of Disney Time from the toy department of Selfridges store in London, broadcast on BBC1 on Boxing Day at 5.50 pm.
The Goodies never had a formal contract with the BBC, and when the BBC Light Entertainment budget for 1980 was exhausted by the production of The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy TV series, the Goodies signed a contract with London Weekend Television (LWT) for ITV. However, after one half-hour Christmas special ("Snow White 2") in 1981, and a six-part series in early 1982, the series was cancelled. In later interviews the cast suggest the reasons were mainly economic, and that a typical Goodies sketch was more expensive than it appeared.

DVD and VHS releases
Awards and nominations
"The Goodies" won the Silver Rose at the Festival Rose d'Or, held in Montreux, Switzerland, in 1972 for a special episode, based on the original 1971 Goodies' "Kitten Kong" episode, titled "Kitten Kong: Montreux '72 Edition". In the first episode of the next series, "The New Office", Tim Brooke-Taylor can be seen painting the trophy gold.
"The Goodies" was nominated for a BAFTA for Best Light Entertainment Programme in 1972, losing to The Benny Hill Show."The Goodies" won the Silver Rose in 1975 at the Festival Rose d'Or for their episode "The Movies"."The Goodies" was nominated for a BAFTA for Best Light Entertainment Programme in 1976, losing to The Two Ronnies.

International releases and repeats of the TV series
Britain
Unlike many long-running BBC comedy series, The Goodies has not enjoyed extensive repeats on terrestrial television in the UK. In 1986, BBC2 broadcast the episode "Kitten Kong" during a week of programmes screened under the banner "TV-50", when the BBC celebrated 50 years of broadcasting. In the late 1980s the pan-European satellite-channel Super Channel broadcast a couple of episodes, and the short-lived Comedy Channel broadcast some of the later Goodies episodes in the early 1990s. Later UK Gold screened many of the earlier episodes, often with commercial timing cuts. The same episodes subsequently aired on UK Arena, also cut. When UK Arena became UK Drama, later UKTV Drama, The Goodies was dropped along with its other comedy and documentary shows.
The cast finally took matters into their own hands and arranged with Network Video for the release of a digitally-remastered 'best of' selection entitled The Goodies ... At Last on VHS and Region 0 DVD in April 2003. A second volume, The Goodies ... At Last a Second Helping was released on Region 2 in February 2005. Series 9 (including the Xmas special) was released on Region 2 as The Goodies – The Complete LWT Series on 26 March 2007 and a fourth volume The Goodies ... At Last Back for More, Again was released on region 2 in 2010 as well as a DVD box set containing all four volumes to celebrate 40 years of The Goodies.
In 2004, an episode of the BBC documentary series Comedy Connections was devoted to the Goodies. During Christmas that year, Channel 5 repeated the classic 1973 episode "The Goodies and the Beanstalk".  Christmas 2005 saw a 90-minute Goodies special, a documentary about the series, Return of the Goodies, broadcast on BBC Two.Early in 2006, a single episode ("Winter Olympics") was broadcast on BBC Two. In February 2007, the 1982 LWT series was repeated on pay-TV channel Paramount 2.
In December 2010, BBC Two showed selected late-night repeats of the BBC series, which ran nightly from 23 to 30 December. This apparent gesture followed years of campaigning by The Goodies that the shows had not been repeated like other BBC shows such as Dad's Army, Only Fools and Horses and Some Mothers Do 'Ave 'Em. The episodes shown were: "Bunfight at the O.K. Tea Rooms" / "Earthanasia" / "The Goodies and the Beanstalk" / "Kitten Kong" / "Lighthouse Keeping Loonies" / "Saturday Night Grease" / "The Baddies" (a.k.a. "Double Trouble") and "The Stone Age", although "Scoutrageous", "Kung Fu Kapers" and "Scotland" (a.k.a. "Loch Ness Monster") were originally billed as episodes 1, 2 and 7 of the repeat run. The episodes garnered good ratings given their time slot, and the first six episodes were taken from the BBC's own master tapes, rather than the digital remasters, the rights to which are currently owned by Network Video. "The Baddies" and "The Stone Age" have never been digitally remastered.
On Sunday 8 June 2014, during a 1970s weekend, BBC Two repeated the Montreux '72 Edition of "Kitten Kong" once again; however, this has been the only episode to be repeated twice, and no full series have been repeated since.
In September 2018, Network released a box set titled The Goodies: The Complete BBC Collection. This set contains every single episode from 1970-1980 (excepting the lost, original version of "Kitten Kong") and, as a bonus feature, a one-hour edit of the show "An Audience with the Goodies", hosted by Stewart Lee and filmed live at Leicester Square in June 2018.
In late September 2022 the TV channel 'That's TV' (numbered 183 on SKY TV listings and 65 on Freeview) started showing the BBC episodes, one episode every day, starting with series one episode one on 26th September at 21.40. Series 2 started airing at 21.45 on October 5th. Series 3 started airing at 21:40 on October 11th. Series 4 started airing at 21:30 on October 17th. Series 5 started airing at 21:30 on October 24th. Series 6 started airing at 21:30 on November 6th. Some episodes are being aired in poor quality and/or black & White as the tapes were sadly wiped for reuse by the BBC in the 1970s. Although there is a message before each episode stating; 'This programme reflects the standards, language and attitudes of its time. Some viewers may find this content offensive', it seems that not all episodes are being aired - noticeably the 'Kitten Kong', 'Special Tax Edition' & 	'The Goodies Rule – O.K.?' specials, but also series 2 episodes 'Pollution', 'The Lost Tribe', 'Come Dancing', 'Gender Education, 'Charity Bounce' & 'The Baddies', series 3 episode 'Superstar', series 4 episodes 'The Goodies and the Beanstalk' & 'The Race', series 5 episodes 'Scatty Safari' & 'South Africa' were not aired, with no notice or reason given.

Australia
In Australia, the series has had continued popularity. It was especially popular when it was repeated through the 1970s and 1980s by the ABC. As the show was typically broadcast in the 25-minute 6:00 pm children's timeslot, portions often had to be cut. The 1981-82 LWT series was played once on the Seven Network in the early 1980s. The ABC screened the BBC episodes again in the early 1990s, but skipped several stories due to either inappropriate material for a children's timeslot, or a lack of colour prints at the time. The BBC episodes were then heavily edited to allow time for commercials when repeated on Network Ten in the 1990s, before moving to the pay television channel UK.TV during the late 1990s and early 2000s, where they were screened in full. ABC2  ran re-runs of the series, beginning in 2010.
Three of the Goodies DVDs are available in Australia under different titles to the UK releases: The Goodies: 8 Delicious Episodes, The Goodies: A Tasty Second Helping and The Goodies: The Final Episodes, respectively. The Goodies' DVDs are also available in a boxed set with a commemorative booklet (The Goodies: The Tasty Box). This collection contains the same 16 episodes as the original two DVD releases but with additional material such as commentaries on several episodes and the original scripts of some episodes in PDF format. Picture quality has been greatly improved using digital restoration techniques and the episode "Come Dancing", which was originally thought to only have survived as a black-and-white film recording, is presented in colour from a 625-line low-band broadcast standard PAL VT recording, made for training purposes, which has had the low-level colour boosted. (The original Australian DVD release, The Goodies – A Tasty Second Helping (2 disc set), and The Goodies – A Second Helping: 4 tasty serves (1 Disc), featured the b/w telerecording of this episode.)

Canada
In Canada, the series was shown in on the CBC national broadcast network during the late 1970s and early 1980s, in the traditional "after school" time slot, later a Friday night 10 pm slot, and occasionally in a midnight slot. Several episodes were also shown on the CTV Television Network. In the mid-1970s it was shown on TVOntario on Saturday evenings, repeated on Thursday evenings, until it was replaced by Doctor Who in 1976.

Germany
In Germany in 1972, German TV screened the 13-part variety show Engelbert and the Young Generation, a co-production between the BBC and German station ZDF in which The Goodies appeared in short 3-to-4-minute film sequences. The first six of these sequences were culled from the first and second series of The Goodies: "Pets" (from "Kitten Kong"), "Pop Festival" (from "The Music Lovers"), "Keep Fit" (from "Commonwealth Games"), "Post Office" (from "Radio Goodies"), "Sleepwalking" (from "Snooze") and "Factory Farm" (from "Fresh Farm Foods"); and there were seven new film sequences, "Good Deed Day", "The Gym", "The Country Code", "Street Entertainers", "Plum Pudding", "Bodyguards" and "Pan's Grannies" – these also featured intro sequences with host Engelbert Humperdinck visiting the Goodies at their office. The shows were dubbed into German and because the Goodies part of the shows was more visual than dialogue-based, it translated very well.
Five of these new films were also cut together, with a new story involving The Goodies filling out their "Tax Evasion" form, as a special 25-minute Goodies compilation episode, "A Collection of Goodies", first broadcast on BBC1 at 8.15 pm on 24 September 1972, and produced by Jim Franklin. "The Country Code" and "Bodyguards" were not used.

New Zealand
In New Zealand, the series was originally shown in full by the NZBC (later TV One) during the 1970s and 1980s. Since then, it has been re-run on SKY Network Television's Comedy Central.

Spain
In Spain, a couple of episodes of The Goodies were shown as part of a season of television-award-winning programmes (the Goodies were Montreux Festival winners) on TVE 2 entitled Festival TV in 1981.

United States
In the US, the series was shown widely in syndication during the late 1970s and early 1980s, but has been little seen since. It was shown also on PBS stations, sometimes in tandem with Monty Python's Flying Circus.

Books
Goodies books, written by the Goodies
In their heyday The Goodies also produced successful books:

The Goodies File – Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie, Sphere Books Ltd., London 1975. (This book was reprinted eight times between 1976 and 1981)
The Goodies Book of Criminal Records – Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie, Sphere Books Ltd., London 1975
The Making of The Goodies Disaster Movie – Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie, Weidenfeld & Nicolson Ltd., London 1977.  (First Sphere Books Ltd., London edition 1978)

Books about the Goodies, written by other people
The Complete Goodies – Robert Ross, B T Batsford, London, 2000
The Goodies Rule OK – Robert Ross, Carlton Books Ltd, Sydney, 2006
The Clue Bible: The Fully Authorised History of ISIHAC – Jem Roberts, Preface Publishing 2009
The Goodies Superchaps Three – Andrew Pixley, 2011
The Goodies Episode Summaries – Brett Allender
The Goodies – Fact File – Matthew K. Sharp
The Goodies, the name of a chapter (pages 162-179) within the book From Fringe to Flying Circus – Celebrating a Unique Generation of Comedy 1960-1980 – Roger Wilmut, Eyre Methuen Ltd, 1980

Goodies songs
"All Things Bright and Beautiful" was released as a single credited to The Goodies in 1973, although it had been recorded in 1966 when they were part of I'm Sorry, I'll Read That Again.
The first true Goodies album, The Goodies Sing Songs From The Goodies, was released in 1973 and reissued as The World of the Goodies in 1974. "The Goodies Theme" was released as a single in 1973.
They had a string of successful chart singles penned by Bill Oddie. In 1974–75, they chalked up five hit singles in twelve months: "The Inbetweenies", "Black Pudding Bertha", "Nappy Love" and "The Funky Gibbon" (all performed during the episode "The Goodies – Almost Live"), and "Make a Daft Noise for Christmas".
"The Funky Gibbon" was their biggest hit, reached number 4 in the UK Singles Chart. The Goodies made an appearance on Top of the Pops with the song. They also performed it during the Amnesty International show A Poke in the Eye (with a Sharp Stick). "The Funky Gibbon" became a favourite in the United States on Dr. Demento's radio shows and reached number 79 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1975.
The New Goodies LP, which featured most of the hit singles, reached number 25 on the UK Albums Chart in 1975.

Goodies Theme
Three variations of the Goodies Theme were used on the opening titles for the 1970–1982 television series. Apart from the original Goodies Theme, used from 1970–1972 and released as a single, two other variations surfaced, one, with a contemporary feel from 1973–1974, sung by Bill and then the third and final theme for the rest of the series from 1975 onwards, again sung by Bill. This variation lasted for the rest of the TV series and also surfaced on later Goodies LPs and, eventually, singles.

Other collaborations
Tim Brooke-Taylor was a writer/performer on the television comedy series At Last the 1948 Show (which also included John Cleese, Graham Chapman and Marty Feldman in the cast), in which Eric Idle and Bill Oddie guest-starred in some of the episodes. The famous "Four Yorkshiremen" sketch was co-written by the four writers/performers of the series – Tim Brooke-Taylor, John Cleese, Graham Chapman and Marty Feldman.
Tim Brooke-Taylor was a cast member of the television comedy series Marty with Marty Feldman and John Junkin – a compilation of the two series of Marty has been released on a DVD with the title of It's Marty.
Brooke-Taylor was also a cast member of John Cleese's special How to Irritate People.
Along with John Junkin and Barry Cryer, Brooke-Taylor was a regular cast member of the long-running Radio 2 comedy sketch show Hello, Cheeky!, which ran from 1973 to 1979. The series also transferred to Yorkshire Television for two series in 1975 and 1976.
Tim Brooke-Taylor also appeared on BBC's hospital comedy TLC, as well as the sitcoms You Must Be The Husband (with Diane Keen and Sheila Steafel), and Me and My Girl (with Richard O'Sullivan and Joan Sanderson). He also played in a televised pro-celebrity golf match opposite Bruce Forsyth.
Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie were writers/performers on the television comedy series Twice a Fortnight (which also included Terry Jones, Michael Palin and Jonathan Lynn in the cast).
Tim Brooke-Taylor and Graeme Garden were writers/performers on the television comedy series Broaden Your Mind, with Bill Oddie joining them for the second series.
The three writers and performers also collaborated on the 1983 animated children's programme Bananaman, where they played various voice roles.
Bill Oddie has occasionally appeared on the BBC Radio 4 panel game I'm Sorry I Haven't a Clue, on which Garden and Brooke-Taylor are regular panellists.
Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie worked on the television comedy Doctor in the House: they co-wrote most of the first series and all of the second.  Garden also appeared as a television interviewer in the series, in the episode titled "On the Box".
Between 1981 and 1983 Garden and Oddie wrote, but did not perform in, a science fiction sitcom called Astronauts for Central and ITV. The show was set in a British space station in the near future.
Garden was a regular team captain on the political satire game show If I Ruled the World. Brooke-Taylor appeared as a guest in one episode, and during the game "I Couldn't Disagree More" he proposed that it was high time The Goodies episodes were repeated. Garden was obliged by the rules of the game to refute this statement, and replied "I couldn't disagree more...it was time to repeat them ten, fifteen years ago." This was followed by uproarious applause from the studio audience.
In 2004, Garden and Brooke-Taylor were co-presenters of Channel 4's daytime game show Beat the Nation, in which they indulged in usual game show "banter", but took the quiz itself seriously. Oddie hosts a very successful series of nature programmes for the BBC.

Goodies reunion shows
2005 Australian reunion shows
The trio reunited in Australia for The Goodies (Still A) Live on Stage as part of Sydney's Big Laugh Comedy Festival in March 2005. The show toured the country, visiting Melbourne, Brisbane and Canberra and selling out most of the 13 performances.A further Australian tour by the Goodies, sans Bill, took place during November and December 2005.

"Return of the Goodies" (2005)
On 30 December, BBC2 broadcast a feature-length special, featuring some new material by Brooke-Taylor, Garden and Oddie, linking clips from the original television series and interview footage.

2006 and 2007 UK reunion shows
Tim Brooke-Taylor and Graeme Garden took their Goodies Live show to the 2006 Edinburgh Fringe festival. The show was similar to the second leg of the Goodies Australian tour, with Bill Oddie participating via video (due to his many filming commitments). The show was also performed at the Paramount Comedy Festival in Brighton in October 2006.Brooke-Taylor and Garden performed the show at 22 further UK venues in 2007.

2009 World's Funniest Island and Riverside
Tim Brooke-Taylor and Graeme Garden appeared at Sydney's Riverside Theatre (Parramatta) on 15 October 2009 and the World's Funniest Island comedy festival on Cockatoo Island, Sydney Harbour on 17–18 October 2009. The show was hosted by Andrew Hansen of Australian comedy team The Chaser.

2010 The One Show
On the 4th November 2010, The Goodies were once again reunited when the BBC1 magazine and chat show The One Show brought them back together.

2013: An Oldie but a Goodie
Bill Oddie toured Australia to present a series of one-man shows, An Oldie but a Goodie, during June 2013. The tour took in Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth. A video with the three Goodies was shown during the shows.On 19 June 2013, Oddie made personal appearances on both The Project and the Adam Hills Tonight television shows in conjunction with the tour.

2019: The Big Ben Theory
The final time that The Goodies collaborated on a commercially available project was a single, hour-long audiobook created for Audible UK, entitled The Big Ben Theory. Scripted by Gareth Gwynn and John-Luke Roberts, along with Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie, and recorded in front of a highly appreciative live audience, the cast comprised Tim, Bill (an indisposed Graeme was replaced at the last minute by the project's originator and producer, Barnaby Eaton-Jones), Joanna Lumley, Philip Pope, Jon Culshaw and Kate Harbour, with direction from Dirk Maggs. Graeme Garden's own description reads ‘As Parliament falls apart and sinister dictators threaten the world, Tim, Graeme and Bill must save the day. They defeated Kitten Kong! They stuffed the Funky Gibbon! They invented Ecky Thump! Can they save Parliament as well? 52% say yes. 48% say no. But you just can't rely on statistics, can you?!’ The audiobook, released by Audible on 9 October 2019, was intended to be the pilot for a forthcoming series of new episodes to be written and recorded in 2020; however, the project ended with Tim Brooke-Taylor’s death from complications from COVID-19 on April 12 that year in Cookham, Berkshire, aged 79.
In January 2022 it was announced that a series of novellas based on the planned Audible episodes was set to be published by Chinbeard Books, commencing with "Avengers Dissemble", adapted by producer and writer Barnaby Eaton Jones, with a foreword by Joanna Lumley, and based on material co-devised with the Goodies. The first book is dedicated to Tim Brooke-Taylor, 2 years since his death from COVID-19 complications and published with the backing of Tim's family and the 2 remaining Goodies: Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie, with a percentage of the royalties going to the charity Tim was President of for over 25 years – Thames Valley Adventure Playground.

Cultural influence
The Mighty Boosh was started when Julian Barratt asked Noel Fielding if he wanted to make a modern-day Goodies.The official Goodies fan club's (Goodies Rule-OK!) newsletter is called the Clarion & Globe. It was named after the newspaper in The Goodies' episode "Fleet Street Goodies" (a.k.a. "Cunning Stunts").During the 1970s, Cor!! comic, released by Fleetway publications, had a Goodies comics strip. When the comic later merged with Buster, the Goodies did not move across, although the TV show was still running.Australian rock band Spiderbait released a 1993 album and EP which contained a rocked-up fast cover version of the Goodies song "Run".Australian theatre company Shaolin Punk produced a short play titled "A Record or an OBE", written by Melbourne comedian and actor Ben McKenzie, and featuring Tim and Graeme as characters. Set in 1975, the two remaining Goodies struggle to carry on after Bill leaves the group to pursue a music career. The play premiered in the 2007 Melbourne Fringe Festival, where it was highly commended in the Comedy category. Later seasons were also performed for the Adelaide Fringe and Melbourne International Comedy Festival in 2008.U.S. rock band The White Stripes named their 6th album Icky Thump in reference to The Goodies sketch "The Battle of Ecky Thump". The name was changed from "Ecky Thump" to "Icky Thump" to make the title more palatable to an American teenage audience.

Honours
All three Goodies were awarded OBEs. Bill Oddie received his OBE in 2003 for wildlife conservation, while Tim Brooke-Taylor and Graeme Garden received their OBEs in 2011 for services to light entertainment. The show often mocked OBEs: in particular, a running joke was that Tim desperately wanted to receive one.

Awards
All three Goodies have been regular attendees at Slapstick Festival in Bristol, and in 2011 they were awarded the Aardman Slapstick Visual Comedy Legend Award at the festival for the significant contributions to the field of visual comedy they have made during their careers.

Viewer incidents
On 24 March 1975, Alex Mitchell, a 50-year-old bricklayer from King's Lynn, literally died laughing while watching an episode of The Goodies. According to his wife, who was a witness, Mitchell was unable to stop laughing whilst watching a sketch in the episode "Kung Fu Kapers" in which Tim Brooke-Taylor, dressed as a kilted Scotsman, used a set of bagpipes to defend himself from a black pudding-wielding Bill Oddie (master of the ancient Lancastrian martial art "Ecky-Thump") in a demonstration of the Scottish martial art of "Hoots-Toot-ochaye". After twenty-five minutes of continuous laughter Mitchell finally slumped on the settee and died from heart failure. His widow later sent the Goodies a letter thanking them for making Mitchell's final moments so pleasant. In 2012, Mitchell's granddaughter was diagnosed with Long QT Syndrome after suffering cardiac arrest. Because this condition is genetic, it is believed that Mitchell's heart failure was triggered by an undiagnosed case of LQTS.On 1 November 1977, Seema Bakewell, a 32-year-old housewife from Leicester, went into labour whilst laughing at a sketch in the Goodies episode "Alternative Roots". She refused to leave home for the hospital until the episode had finished.  Thirty years later, she visited the 2007 UK reunion tour with "her baby, Ayesha, and the baby's husband" and recounted the story to Graeme Garden.

See also
List of The Goodies episodes
The Goodies discography
The Goodies videography
Passage 3:
Book of Ways
Book of Ways, the feeling of strings, is a one-in-a-kind double album of improvised music performed by Keith Jarrett on clavichord recorded in July 1986 and released by ECM Records in 1987.

Making of
As Jarrett stated in an interview with pianist Ted Rosenthal appeared in the Jan-Feb 1997 issue of "Piano and Keyboard magazine", 

"That whole recording was done in one afternoon and everything was a first take and nothing was coming from any pre--ordained thing. I had no material." (..)
"I think Book of Ways is one of the recordings I wish more people would know. I think it has more of what I hear on it than a lot of things (I do) on piano because piano is piano. These two clavichords together made a different instrument. You could use vibrato on one of them and not the other one, and play unison. I was playing two at the same time as you probably could tell"

In the original notes for the compilation album "Keith Jarrett Selected Recordings", with music selected by Mr. Jarrett himself, he states that:

A Note on "Book of ways": To my knowledge, this recording is unique in several ways. We had three clavichords in the studio, two of which were angled together so that I could play them both simultaneously, and the third off to the side. Also we miked the instruments very closely so that the full range of dynamics could be used (clavichords are very quiet and cannot be heard more than a few feet away). The two CDs were made on an off day between concerts with my Trio, and no material was organized beforehand. Everything was spontaneous. The recording was done in four hours.

Reception
For his 2002 "Keith Jarrett Selected Recordings" album review (which contains "Book of Ways" #12, #14 and #18), Peter Marsh at BBC calls it "extraordinary" and that "the results echo back to Baroque's original role as context for improvisation and simultaneously (through the use of unconventional techniques) rockets it forward a few hundred years."The Allmusic review by Richard S. Ginell awarded the album 3 stars, noting, "Jarrett occasionally tries to stretch the instrument's limited possibilities, hammering percussively on the close-miked strings. Yet for the most part, Jarrett reins in his world-class technique in order to make unpretentiously minimal music on this ancient keyboard. Some of it sounds like folk music, some like new age contemplation, there are convincing neo-baroque musings, and a few of these untitled though numbered selections kick into a higher gear. Sometimes this music is charming; a lot of the time, it gets wearisome. But hey, they also laughed when Keith started putting out massive sets of solo piano..."

Track listing
All music by Keith JarrettDisc One:

"Book of Ways 1" - 9:08
"Book of Ways 2" - 3:41
"Book of Ways 3" - 4:03
"Book of Ways 4" - 4:54
"Book of Ways 5" - 2:58
"Book of Ways 6" - 4:09
"Book of Ways 7" - 3:36
"Book of Ways 8" - 5:35
"Book of Ways 9" - 5:02
"Book of Ways 10" - 3:35Disc Two:  

"Book of Ways 11" - 6:16
"Book of Ways 12" - 4:08
"Book of Ways 13" - 4:38
"Book of Ways 14" - 7:13
"Book of Ways 15" - 5:48
"Book of Ways 16" - 7:37
"Book of Ways 17" - 3:56
"Book of Ways 18" - 7:16
"Book of Ways 19" - 5:38

Personnel
Keith Jarrett – clavichordProduction

Manfred Eicher - producer
Martin Wieland - recording engineer
Kishin Shinoyama - photo
Barbara Wojirsch - cover design and layout
Passage 4:
The Stars and Stripes Forever
"The Stars and Stripes Forever" is a patriotic American march written and composed by John Philip Sousa in 1896. By a 1987 act of the U.S. Congress, it is the official National March of the United States of America.

History
In his 1928 autobiography, Marching Along, Sousa wrote that he composed the march on Christmas Day, 1896. He was on board an ocean liner on his way home from a vacation with his wife in Europe and had just learned of the recent death of David Blakely, the manager of the Sousa Band. He composed the march in his head and committed the notes to paper on arrival in the United States. It was first performed at Willow Grove Park, just outside Philadelphia, on May 14, 1897, and was immediately greeted with enthusiasm. Following an Act of Congress in 1987, it was officially adopted as the national march of the United States of America.Historically, in show business and particularly in theater and the circus, this piece is called "the Disaster March". In the early 20th century, when it was common for theaters and circuses to have house bands, this march was a traditional code signaling a life-threatening emergency. It subtly notified personnel of emergency situations and ideally allowed them to organize the audience's exit without causing the chaos and panic that an overt declaration might. Except for impending disaster, circus bands never played the tune under any circumstances. One memorable example of its use was during the Hartford circus fire of July 6, 1944. At least 168 people were killed, though some estimates are much higher.

Music
"The Stars and Stripes Forever" follows the standard U.S. military march form—of repeated phrasing of different melodies performed in sections called strains: a Sousa legacy. Performances vary according to the arrangements of individual band directors or orchestrators, especially regarding tempo and the number and sequence of strains employed.

Analysis
The march begins with a four-bar introduction, following with the first strain, which is repeated; then the second strain, which is also repeated; and sometimes both are repeated again if (the band is) marching in parade (or the breakstrain may be interjected and repeated). Now follows the dominant woodwinds in the first run of the famous Trio strain—familiar to many for the nonsense lyrics: "Be kind to your web-footed friends..."—which repeats, and later repeats again as the piccolos obligato. (Here, in some performances, Sousa's patriotic lyrics may be sung in a choral overlay.) Then follows the breakstrain, the final strain, and the breakstrain repeated. The final repeats of the Trio (the Grandioso) render the famous obligato of the piccolo players—joined to a subdued but prominent countermelody by the brass section, then bringing everything to a close with once-more repeats of the grand finale.
Sousa explained to the press that the three themes of the final trio were intended to represent the three regions of the United States. The broad melody, or main theme, portrays the North. The South is represented by the famous piccolo obligato, and the West by the bold countermelody of the trombones. The three come together in the climax, representing the Union itself.

Instrumentation
This is scored for an orchestra consisting of two flutes, piccolo, two oboes, two clarinets, two bassoons, four horns, two trumpets, three trombones, tuba, timpani, cymbals, bass drum, snare drum, glockenspiel, and strings.

Lyrics
Sousa's lyrics
Sousa wrote lyrics to the piece, although they are not as familiar as the music itself. A typical pairing of Sousa's lyrics with various sections of the march—here the First strain and the Grandioso strain—is noted in the colored bars.

Tidmarsh's additional lyrics
In 1942 the John Church Company published a four-part choral version of the march with a piano arrangement by Elmer Arthur Tidmarsh. This arrangement has additional lyrics written by Tidmarsh for the Breakstrain section of the march.

Parody lyrics
The exact origin of the parody is unclear, but versions of it were being quoted as early as the 1930s on college campuses, and during the 1940s, where it was sung for entertainment by soldiers at the USO. Some newspapers of that time referred to it as the "Duck Song." In 1954, Charles Grean and Joan Javits composed "Crazy Mixed Up Song", using the theme from "The Stars and Stripes Forever", with lyrics beginning "Be kind to your web-footed friends". It was made somewhat popular by Peter Lind Hayes & Mary Healy in that year. In the early 1960s, it reached a wider audience as a part of Mitch Miller's nationally syndicated sing-along show, Sing Along with Mitch. This version has perhaps the best known lyrics, which were used to end every show:

The last two lines were later used for the theme song of the 1985 television series The Berenstain Bears, but with the lyrics changed to:

Later versions of "Be kind to your web-footed friends" extended the lyrics of the second verse. One popular version goes like this:

And the song repeats itself ad infinitum, getting higher in tone each repeat until the singer is ready for the final as per Mitch Miller:

"Well, you're right!" may be substituted for "Well, it is!".
Another version goes like this:

The blank may be filled with appropriate adjectives like "low", "high", "silly", "fast", etc., until ready for the finale, when the singer may end with "Well, it is!" as did Mitch Miller.

Soccer chants
"Here We Go", the British soccer chant, consists of the words "here we go" continuously repeated to the tune of The Stars and Stripes Forever. It was described by Auberon Waugh as the national anthem of the working classes. It was the basis of Everton F.C.'s official song for the 1984 FA Cup Final. The tune has been repurposed for many other, similarly repetitive, football chants.

Variations and notable uses
"The Stars and Stripes Forever" is featured in many U.S. musical performances and pop culture:

There are several orchestral transcriptions of "The Stars and Stripes Forever", including one by conductor Leopold Stokowski and one by Keith Brion and Loras Schissel. There was also an orchestral arrangement of the march by Carl Davis and David Cullen for the album Carl Conducts...Classical Festival Favourites. Orchestral versions are typically transposed one-half step lower than the original band version, to put the march in a key that is more familiar to string players.
The tune is widely used by soccer fans, with the trio/grandioso section sung with the words "Here We Go". The supporters of Spanish side Valencia CF used to sing it with the words "Xe que bó!" which means something like "Oh! How good" in Valencian, and those words have become a symbol for the team. Another version uses the word cheerio repeatedly, normally sung to players or coaches when they have been sent off or occasionally when an underdog has ended its opponent's cup campaign. Finally, certain clubs such as Forest Green or Sunderland use the chant just using the club name; this only works if the name has three syllables. A nickname can instead be used for the chant, such as Gateshead fans chanting "Tynesiders".
In the 1933 film Duck Soup, Harpo Marx, playing Pinky, a spy infiltrating a house in the middle of the night, attempts to open what he believes to be a safe, but turns out to be a large radio, which loudly begins playing "The Stars and Stripes Forever" when he turns the knob. Pinky spends the next several moments futilely (and loudly) trying to quell the noise before throwing the radio out a nearby window.
The march was used in the 1939 cartoon Officer Duck, after Donald Duck successfully subdues Tiny Tom, played by Pete. It is played by a marching band of police officers who further advance Tom's arrest. On the highest note of the brass, Donald kicks Tom on his rear end.
Classic Popeye the Sailor cartoons by Fleischer Studios make frequent use of the tune in the music score accompanying the climactic fight between Popeye and the villain starting with the moment Popeye gets a spinach power boost.
Parts of the tune feature in two Laurel and Hardy short films, The Chimp and Come Clean.
In show business, as said before, particularly theater and the circus, this piece is called "the Disaster March". It is a traditional code signaling a life-threatening emergency. This helps theater personnel to handle events and organize the audience's exit without panic. Circus bands never play it under any other circumstances. One memorable example of its use was at the Hartford Circus Fire in July 1944, in which at least 160 people were killed.
A 1952 biographical film, Stars and Stripes Forever, gives an account of the composer's life and music.
Russian-American pianist Vladimir Horowitz wrote a famous transcription of "The Stars and Stripes Forever" for solo piano to celebrate his becoming an American citizen. In an interview, Horowitz opined that the march, being a military march, is meant to be played at a walking tempo. He complained that many conductors played the piece too fast, resulting in music that is "hackneyed".
Timmy Mallett was fond of chanting "Wacaday, Wacaday, Wacaday" to the tune in children's TV show Wacaday, often getting child guests to do the same.
In "Evolution", the first episode of the third season of the television series Star Trek: The Next Generation, a malfunction in the ship's systems causes the main computer to play Sousa's march on all channels throughout the ship. The episode was first aired on September 25, 1989.
The song is usually played for the President of the United States after he gives a speech at a public forum, event, or ceremony, whereas "Hail to the Chief" is played when the President is introduced.
The tune of the song appears in the 1970 animated TV special adaptation of Horton Hears a Who! by Dr. Seuss, used as the melody for the song Be Kind To Your Small Person Friends.
In 1981, fingerstyle guitarist Guy Van Duser made an arrangement of the march for guitar. It was later performed by guitarists such as Chet Atkins, Rick Foster and Doug Smith.
The march was adapted for the theme song to The Berenstain Bears 1985 cartoon.
An 8-bit version of the song is used in the MS-DOS and Commodore 64 versions of Wheel of Fortune when solving a puzzle correctly.
The student band Strindens Promenade Orchester in Trondheim, Norway, has the world record in "speed playing" of "The Stars and Stripes Forever" (absolutely all notes must be played). The band calls their speedy rendering of the march "Stars and Stribes", and performs the march at all solemn occasions at the Trondheim Student Society. Set during the fall term of 1999, the record time is 50.9 seconds (nominal time is 3 minutes 50 seconds). For this, the band is noted in the Norwegian edition of the Guinness Book of Records.
The march in a specific rendition is in the soundtrack of the video game Postal 2, where it's performed by the marching band.
American composer Robert W. Smith parodied Stars and Stripes Forever along with "Jingle Bells" with his composition "Jingle Bells Forever", published by Alfred Publishing Co.
In 2008, the Muppets performed a web version starring Sam the Eagle, Beaker, a clucking chicken, Bobo the Bear, The Swedish Chef, and Crazy Harry.
The video game Fallout 3 has the Stars and Stripes Forever as one of the songs on the Enclave Radio.
In 2009, Fetch! with Ruff Ruffman used this tune as a jingle in advertising character Ruff Ruffman's "RuffMeal" in the episode "The RuffMeal Needs More Roughage".
At the conclusion of WWE's Extreme Rules pay-per-view in 2011, Stars and Stripes Forever played following John Cena announcing the death of Osama Bin Laden. It was also played during the January 5, 2015 episode of WWE Raw from Corpus Christi, Texas, also involving Cena, during the main event segment called John Cena Appreciation Night, where The Authority (Triple H and Stephanie McMahon) thanked Cena for (kayfabe) re-hiring them following the previous year's Survivor Series event's main event match, only to slander him and then (kayfabe) fire his teammates from that night, Dolph Ziggler, Ryback and Erick Rowan. The Big Show, who was also Cena's teammate during the aforementioned match, was not fired since he turned his back on Cena during the match and then joined The Authority. Balloons and confetti then fell from the rafters as Cena and his teammates stood in the ring, dejected, as the song played.
In Argentina, a sensationalist news channel, Crónica TV, always uses the first 22 seconds of this march as a background music on reporting breaking news stories.
The Grateful Dead finished their 50th reunion concert on July 4, 2015 with fireworks accompanied by a recording of "The Stars and Stripes Forever", in front of 70,000 people in Soldier Field in Chicago.
In 2022, a March Madness-themed commercial from Capital One featured the opening notes of "The Stars and Stripes Forever" being played by a marching band led by Charles Barkley, who claimed to represent a fictional university named "Chuck U". Samuel L. Jackson and Spike Lee are also featured in the commercial.

See also
List of marches by John Philip Sousa
"You're a Grand Old Flag"
Passage 5:
My Way
"My Way" is a song popularized in 1969 by Frank Sinatra set to the music of the French song "Comme d'habitude" composed by Jacques Revaux with lyrics by Gilles Thibaut and Claude François and first performed in 1967 by Claude François. Its English lyrics were written by Paul Anka and are unrelated to the original French song.  
The song was a success for a variety of performers including Sinatra, Elvis Presley, and Sid Vicious. Sinatra's version of "My Way" spent 75 weeks in the UK Top 40, which is 3rd place all-time.

Background
In 1967, Jacques Revaux wrote a ballad named "For Me", with English lyrics about a couple falling out of love. According to Revaux, the demo was then sent to Petula Clark, Dalida, and Claude François, to no avail. Revaux rejected a version by Hervé Villard, the singer of the international hit Capri c'est fini and reworked the track into Comme d'habitude ("As usual") with the help of Claude François. It was released in November 1967 and was at the top of the French pop chart for one week in February 1968.Paul Anka heard the French original, while on holiday in the south of France. He flew to Paris to negotiate the rights to the song. He acquired adaptation, recording, and publishing rights for the nominal but formal consideration of one dollar, subject to the provision that the melody's composers would retain their original share of royalty rights with respect to whatever versions Anka or his designates created or produced.  Some time later, Anka had a dinner in Florida with Frank Sinatra and "a couple of Mob guys" during which Sinatra said: "I'm quitting the business. I'm sick of it; I'm getting the hell out."
Back in New York, Anka re-wrote the original French song for Sinatra, subtly altering the melodic structure and changing the lyrics: At one o'clock in the morning, I sat down at an old IBM electric typewriter and said, 'If Frank were writing this, what would he say?' And I started, metaphorically, 'And now the end is near.' I read a lot of periodicals, and I noticed everything was 'my this' and 'my that'. We were in the 'me generation' and Frank became the guy for me to use to say that. I used words I would never use: 'I ate it up and spit it out.' But that's the way he talked. I used to be around steam rooms with the Rat Pack guys—they liked to talk like Mob guys, even though they would have been scared of their own shadows. Anka finished the song at 5 in the morning: "I called Frank up in Nevada—he was at Caesars Palace – and said, 'I've got something really special for you.'" Anka asserted: "When my record company caught wind of it, they were very pissed that I didn't keep it for myself. I said, 'Hey, I can write it, but I'm not the guy to sing it.' It was for Frank, no one else."Despite this, Anka would record the song in 1969 very shortly after Sinatra's recording was released. Anka recorded it four other times as well: in 1996 (as a duet with Gabriel Byrne, performed in the movie Mad Dog Time); in 1998 in Spanish as "A Mi Manera" (duet with Julio Iglesias); in 2007 (as a duet with Jon Bon Jovi); and in 2013 (as a duet with Garou).On December 30, 1968, Frank Sinatra recorded his version of the song in one take, featuring session drummer Buddy Saltzman among the band.
"My Way" was released in early 1969 on the My Way LP and as a single. It reached No. 27 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart and No. 2 on the Easy Listening chart in the US. In the UK, the single achieved a still unmatched record, becoming the recording with the most weeks inside the Top 40, spending 75 weeks from April 1969 to September 1971. It spent a further 49 weeks in the Top 75 but never bettered the No. 5 slot achieved upon its first chart run.Billboard said that the "driving, lush and commercial Don Costa arrangement and production is an added plus to one of Sinatra's finest performances." Cash Box said that "The powerful material is matched by a splendidly moving performance which is certain to win rave comments from programmers with teen and adult audiences."Although this work became Frank Sinatra's signature song, his daughter Tina says the singer came to hate the song: "He didn't like it. That song stuck and he couldn't get it off his shoe. He always thought that song was self-serving and self-indulgent."

Charts
Certifications
Versions
David Bowie reportedly wrote the first English language lyrics to Claude François's original tune, though the lyrics and performance were only informally recorded and never commercially published.

Dorothy Squires
In the midst of Sinatra's multiple runs on the UK Singles Chart, Welsh singer Dorothy Squires also released a rendition of "My Way" in summer 1970. Her recording reached number 25 on the UK Singles Chart and re-entered the chart twice more during that year.

Elvis Presley
Elvis Presley began performing the song in concert during the mid-1970s, despite Anka's suggestions that the song did not suit him. Nevertheless, on January 12 and 14, 1973, Presley sang the song during his satellite show Aloha from Hawaii Via Satellite, beamed live and on deferred basis (for European audiences, who also saw it in prime time), to 43 countries via Intelsat.
On October 3, 1977, several weeks after Presley's death, his live recording of "My Way" (recorded for the Elvis In Concert CBS-TV special on June 21, 1977) was released as a single. In the U.S., it reached number 22 on the Billboard Hot 100 pop singles chart in late 1977/early 1978 (higher than Frank Sinatra's peak position), number 6 on the Billboard Adult Contemporary chart, and went gold for its successful sales of over a million copies. The following year the single reached number 2 on the Billboard Country singles chart but went all the way to number 1 on the rival Cash Box Country Singles chart. In the UK, it reached number 9 on the UK Singles Chart.
Presley's version is featured in the climax of the 2001 film 3000 Miles to Graceland with Kurt Russell and Kevin Costner. (Paul Anka appears in a cameo as a casino pit boss who loathes Presley.)
Presley's studio version of the song, recorded in 1971, was included on the fourth disc of "Walk a Mile in My Shoes: The Essential '70s Masters".

Certifications
Sid Vicious
Sex Pistols' bassist Sid Vicious did a punk rock version of the song, in which a large body of the words were changed and the arrangement was sped up. The orchestral backing was arranged by Simon Jeffes.
Interviewed in 2007, Paul Anka said he had been "somewhat destabilized by the Sex Pistols' version. It was kind of curious, but I felt he [Sid Vicious] was sincere about it."Vicious and his girlfriend, Nancy Spungen, changed many of the words when it was recorded, including use of the swear words "cunt" and "fuck" as well as the word "queer" (slang for a gay man). Vicious's reference to a "prat who wears hats" was an in-joke directed towards Vicious's friend and Sex Pistols bandmate Johnny Rotten, who was fond of wearing different kinds of hats he would pick up at rummage sales.
Leonard Cohen said of the song: I never liked this song except when Sid Vicious did it. Sung straight, it somehow deprives the appetite of a certain taste we'd like to have on our lips. When Sid Vicious did it, he provided that other side to the song; the certainty, the self-congratulation, the daily heroism of Sinatra's version is completely exploded by this desperate, mad, humorous voice. I can't go round in a raincoat and fedora looking over my life saying I did it my way – well, for 10 minutes in some American bar over a gin and tonic you might be able to get away with it. But Sid Vicious's rendition takes in everybody; everybody is messed up like that, everybody is the mad hero of his own drama. It explodes the whole culture this self-presentation can take place in, so it completes the song for me.
The 1986 film Sid and Nancy features a scene where Gary Oldman, portraying Vicious, performs his version of "My Way" while filming the song's music video.Vicious's version of this song appears in Martin Scorsese's 1990 film Goodfellas, where it plays over the end credits.

Margaret Mackie and Jamie Lee Morley
In December 2019 footage of Margaret Mackie, a resident of Northcare Suites Care Home in Edinburgh who suffers from dementia, performing "My Way" with staff member Jamie Lee Morley, went viral after being posted online by Mackie's daughter.Morley later arranged to have the song professionally recorded and it was released in January 2020 as a charity single to raise funds for The Alzheimer's Society and Dementia UK. The single peaked at number seven in the iTunes top 40 UK Pop Songs live chart and number five in the Amazon best seller chart.

Yuzo Kayama
In Japan, Yuzo Kayama, who is usually called the Japanese Frank Sinatra, performed "My Way" in 2008 in English. On April 23 and 30, 2015, as part of 2 vocal overdubbed sessions, Yuzo Kayama performed "My Way" with the earlier record of Frank Sinatra as a duet.

Adaptations
Besides translations more or less faithful to the original, some artists have set unrelated lyrics to the same tune.

Jozsef Gregor the renowned Hungarian bass-baritone/basso buffo recorded the song with Andras Ruszanov's Hungarian love themed lyrics version in 1996. Two years later, he sang this version in one of the most popular TV show in Budapest, since then this version has been permanently on the playlists of numerous radio stations in Hungary.
Mexican singer Vicente Fernandez did a Spanish language version, named "A Mi Manera".
A version of the song with slightly different lyrics was used as a jingle for a Cologuard commercial in 2022.

Public use
The song is popularly associated with nostalgia to an individual's lifetime of events. Surveys beginning in 2005 have often reported that "My Way" has been the song most frequently played at funeral services in the UK. "My Way" is also a popular karaoke song around the world. However, it has been reported to cause numerous incidents of violence and homicide among karaoke singers in the Philippines, referred to in the media as the My Way killings, which has led to the song being banned in many Filipino bars.The song's association with Sinatra led to Mikhail Gorbachev's policy of allowing other states in the Warsaw Pact to make their own policy decisions being nicknamed the Sinatra Doctrine, referencing "My Way"'s lyrics about doing things your own way. The term was first used by Foreign Ministry spokesman Gennadi Gerasimov in 1987, who was quoted as saying "We now have the Frank Sinatra doctrine. He has a song, I Did It My Way. So every country decides on its own which road to take."
Passage 6:
Followin' a Feelin'
Followin' a Feelin' is the third studio album by Australian country music artist Sherrié Austin. It was released in 2001 by WE Records and peaked at No. 43 on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart. The album's only charted single was a cover of Dolly Parton's "Jolene". Austin's version of the song reached No. 55 on the Hot Country Songs charts in July 2001.

Critical reception
Maria Konicki Dinoia of Allmusic gave the album 4 out of 5 stars, saying that "She's evolved into an exceptionally strong songwriter, having written or co-written nine of the album's ten virtually flawless tracks."

Track listing
"Followin' a Feelin'" (Sherrié Austin, Rob Crosby, Will Rambeaux) — 3:19
"Jolene" (Dolly Parton) — 3:17
"Goin' Goin' Gone" (Austin, Rambeaux, Jon Christopher Davis) — 4:14
"Somethin' Missin' in the Kissin'" (Austin, Rambeaux, Blair Daly) — 3:21
"In the Meantime" (Austin, Rambeaux, Crosby) — 3:41
"My Brilliant Mistake" (Austin, Rambeaux, Greg Barnhill) — 3:17
"In Our Own Sweet Time" (Austin, Rambeaux, Marcus Hummon) — 3:07
"Love Melts Even the Coldest Hearts" (Austin, Shawna Harrington-Burkhart) — 3:17
"Back Where I Belong" (Austin, Rambeaux, Kimberly Roads, Philip Sweet) — 3:00
"Time, Love and Money" (Austin, Rambeaux, Dave Berg) — 3:11

Personnel
Stephanie Bentley - backing vocals
Pat Buchanan - electric guitar
J. T. Corenflos - electric guitar
Jon Christopher Davis - backing vocals
Larry Franklin - mandolin, fiddle
Jimmy Hull - harmonica
Mike Joyce - bass
Troy Lancaster - electric guitar
Tim Lauer - keyboards
Gary McIntyre - steel guitar
Russ Pahl - steel guitar
Kim Parent - backing vocals
Paul Scholten - drums
Steven Sheehan - acoustic guitar
Barry Walsh - keyboards

Chart performance
Passage 7:
Way Out Here (song)
"Way Out Here" is a song co-written and recorded by American country music singer Josh Thompson.  It was released in March 2010 as the second single and title track from his debut album of the same name. Thompson co-wrote the song with David Lee Murphy and Casey Beathard.

Content
"Way Out Here" is a ballad, mostly accompanied by acoustic guitar. In it, the narrator tells of his rural upbringing, the way he was raised, and his desire for the United States to return to a simpler time, back when things "were run the way they ought a be".  The song further laments small town America, stating with nostalgia images of pickup trucks, unlicensed dogs running free, and hard working blue collar men who "chew and fry everything".  A further narrative relates to service in the United States armed forces, of which the narrator tells how people from small town America often wind up joining the military to earn a living and are then deployed overseas.

Music video
The music video for "Way Out Here" was filmed in Cairo, Illinois.  The video begins with scenes of farms, a diner run by a young woman in her late teens (apparently married with a wedding ring and also religious locket which reads "faith") then shifts to a local bar where the narrator sings the song on his guitar.  Interspersed into the video are scenes of men working on a farm as well as scenes of young men deployed in the Army to the Middle East.

Critical reception
The song and video drew mostly positive reviews from critics, however some negative reviews resulted from the portrayal in the music video of an entirely white town (Cairo, Illinois is in fact 70% African American), as well as nostalgia (instead of concern) regarding boarded up small towns steeped in rural poverty.  Paul Brian of Engine 145, gave the song a thumbs-down rating. His review criticized Thompson's vocals for "[simmering] with anger, despair, and moral force as the song approaches numerous key concerns including the economy, military service, work ethic, religious belief, gun ownership, governance, and musical taste."

Chart performance
"Way Out Here" debuted at number 57 on the Hot Country Songs chart dated March 20, 2010, and then fell off the next week. However, it re-entered the country chart at number 58 on the chart dated April 3, 2010. In September 2010, it peaked at number 15 on the chart.

Year-end charts
Passage 8:
Turn Me On (Mark Dinning song)
"Turn Me On" is a song by John D. Loudermilk that was first recorded and released by Mark Dinning in 1961 as the B-side to his single "Lonely Island". Other notable versions are by Nellie Rutherford and Nina Simone. Norah Jones released her version as the last single from her debut album Come Away with Me on May 12, 2003. The song was also performed by Shelby Dressel during her American Idol audition. It has been suggested that the song influenced the composition of Leonard Cohen's 1969 song "Bird on the Wire".

Norah Jones version
Jones's cover was the seventh track on her debut album. This version also appeared in the movie Love Actually and appears on its soundtrack.

Charts
Certifications
Release history
Passage 9:
Kingpin (Tinsley Ellis album)
Kingpin is a 2000 blues album by Tinsley Ellis. It was recorded at Ocean Way by David Z (also the producer) who also mixed at Javelina Recording Studio (both in Nashville, Tennessee) for Supersonic Productions. It was mastered by George Marino at Sterling Sound New York. Tinsley wrote/co-wrote three of the songs.

Track listing
"Heart Fixing Business" (Homer Banks/Allen Jones)
"Sweet Pea" (Wayne Burdette/Tinsley Ellis)
"Dyin' to Do Wrong" (Ellis)
"Can't Play That Way" (Ellis)
"I've Got to Use My Imagination" (Gerry Goffin/Barry Goldberg)
"I Got to Moan" (S. Boyer)
"I'll Be Loving You" (J.L. Williams)
"The Other Side of Town" (Sir Mack Rice/Jon Tiven/Sally Tiven)
"Days of Old" (B.B. King/Josea Taub)
"Slingshots and Boomerangs" (C.C. Adcock/David Eagan)
"Let's Think About It" (Arthur Alexander/Jon Tiven)

Musicians
Tinsley Ellis on Guitar and vocals
David Smith on Bass guitar
Reese Wynans on keyboards
Jack Holder on guitar
Richie Hayward on drums
Kevin McKendree on organ
David Z on guitar, keyboards, percussion
Little Joey Hoegger on harmonica
Jim Hoke on saxophone
Passage 10:
I Got a Feelin' (Billy Currington song)
"I Got a Feelin'" is a song co-written and recorded by American country music singer Billy Currington. It was released in January 2004 as the second and final single from his 2003 self-titled debut album. The song peaked at number 5 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Songs chart in mid-2004. It also reached number 50 on the Billboard Hot 100. Currington wrote this song with Casey Beathard and Carson Chamberlain.

Critical reception
In his review of the album, Jeffrey B. Remz of Country Standard Time viewed the song favorably, saying that it showed Currington's traditional country sound by the prominence of fiddle (played by Stuart Duncan).

Music videos
The music video for the track was directed by Philip Andelman, filmed in the Mojave Desert in California, and co-stars Gena Lee Nolin.

Chart performance
"I Got a Feelin'" debuted at number 53 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart for the week of January 17, 2004.

Charts
Weekly charts
Year-end charts
Passage 11:
Separate Lies
Separate Lies is a 2005 British drama film directed by Julian Fellowes, who also wrote the screenplay, updating the 1951 novel A Way Through the Wood by Nigel Balchin, which had already been turned into a stage play under the title Waiting for Gillian in 1954. The film stars Tom Wilkinson, Emily Watson and Rupert Everett. Separate Lies marked the directorial debut of Julian Fellowes, who had worked mostly as an actor and won an Academy Award with his screenplay for Robert Altman's  Gosford Park.

Plot
"No life is perfect – even if it seems to be," says James Manning, a wealthy London solicitor. When it comes to matters of right and wrong, he likes to think of himself as inflexible. Anne, his much younger wife, is accommodating and dutiful and likes the life they lead, the house in London, the Buckinghamshire hideaway. The couple seems to have it all, yet events soon will prove them wrong.
In the village, a neighbour has reappeared: William Bule, son of a leading local family. He has recently returned from America, a bad marriage and two children, whose ages he cannot bother to remember. Bill is indolent and insinuating and at the village cricket match he catches Anne's eye. Because of him, she suggests to her reluctant husband that they should have neighbours over for drinks. However, that evening, James has to work late in the city. Before the party is set to begin, a speeding car sideswipes a man bicycling along a village lane. The man is hurled to the ground and dies a few days later. He was the husband of Maggie, the Mannings’ housekeeper.
Anne takes a special interest in Maggie's well-being, but James can't understand her sudden teary investment in their housekeeper’s personal life. James, whose priorities have become skewed toward work rather than toward his wife, soon becomes suspicious that Bill may be involved in that fatal hit-and-run. When confronted, Bill initially denies the allegation, but soon tells James that the next day he will go to the police and confess, if that is what he wants, although he sees no benefit from his confessions. Back home, when James tells Anne about his conversation with Bill, she has also some striking confessions to make. Anne reveals one hurtful secret while making a salad: she was actually driving Bill’s car when drunk and accidentally hit the cyclist.  While artfully arranging ingredients on a platter, she informs her already distraught husband that she has also been having an affair with Bill. Telling her story, she asserts that Bill doesn't really mean anything to her, because he doesn't make demands or judge her, as James does in little, incessant ways. Precisely because he's a lout, Bill makes her feel oddly liberated, if not loved.
As a Buckinghamshire police inspector questions the Mannings and Bill about the accident, James is torn between doing the right thing and maintaining appearances at all costs. James really loves Anne, and the couple takes a trip to Wales in an effort to leave the accident, their guilt, and their marital troubles behind. However, Maggie, whose husband was killed, witnessed the accident. She saw the car and identifies it as belonging to Bill Bule. Yet her testimony may be biased, since Maggie knows William Bule well, having worked for his family until she was accused of stealing and dismissed. It was Anne who gave her a new start in the village.
Bule calls for a meeting  with James and Anne. There he says the inspector will come to question them later and that Maggie has identified the car. He requests James to provide an alibi for him to which James agrees. Next day the inspector meets James at his office to confirm the alibi claimed by Bule. Later a mechanic calls Bule to tell about the questioning from police about respraying the car. This makes Anne nervous and she runs to Maggie to tell her the truth and that she is responsible for her husband's death. Maggie being indebted to Anne for giving her the job after eight years takes back her statement about Bule driving the car when confronted by police. Anne goes back to stay with James until one day he's informed by a cousin of Bule that he is dying of cancer. Learning this from James, Anne rushes back to the dying Bule whose father comes to James to express his gratitude for this. Following this James meets Anne near Bule's home and expresses his undiminished love for her. Upon the demise of Bule, Anne is reunited with James.

Cast
Tom Wilkinson as James Manning
Emily Watson as Anne Manning
Rupert Everett as William "Bill" Bule
Richenda Carey as Sarah Tufnell
David Harewood as Inspector Marshall
Linda Bassett as Maggie
Hermione Norris as Priscilla
John Warnaby as Simon
John Neville as Lord Rawston
Philip Rham as French Lawyer
Unknown as Joe

External links
Separate Lies at IMDb
Separate Lies at Rotten Tomatoes
Separate Lies at Box Office Mojo
Passage 12:
Feelin' the Same Way
"Feelin' the Same Way" is a song from American singer-songwriter Norah Jones's debut album, Come Away with Me (2002). It was written by Lee Alexander, and produced by Jones. Released in the United Kingdom on August 5, 2002, the song charted at number 72 on the UK Singles Chart.

Charts

# Source Metadata

- Domain: longbench
- Context ID: 7587fdf038443c2ad76a61eaf9f55a2f
- Approx. Length: 16194 characters