# Context

Passage 1:
Baranya County
Baranya (Hungarian: Baranya vármegye, pronounced [ˈbɒrɒɲɒ ˈvaːrmɛɟɛ]; German: Branau; Croatian: Baranjska županija) is a county (vármegye) in southern Hungary. It is part of the Southern Transdanubia statistical region and the historical Baranya region, which was a county (comitatus) in the Kingdom of Hungary dating back to the 11th century. Its current status as one of the 19 counties of Hungary was established in 1950 as part of wider Soviet administrative territorial reform following World War II. It is bordered by Somogy County to the northwest, Tolna County to the north, Bács-Kiskun County and the Danube to the east, and the border with Croatia (part of which is formed by the Drava River) to the south.
As of the 2011 census, it had a population of 386,441 residents. Of the 19 counties of Hungary (excluding Budapest), it is ranked 10th by both geographic area and population. Its county seat and largest city is Pécs.

Etymology
In German, it is known as Komitat Branau, and in Croatian as Baranjska županija (Baranja).
The county was probably named after its first comes 'Brana' or 'Braina'.

Geography
This county has a total area of 4,430 km2 (1,710 sq mi) – 4.76% of Hungary, it is divided in Upper Baranya and Lower Baranya.
The northern part of the county is a mountain area with large forests, the Mecsek Mountains. The central areas are shared between the Baranya Hills and Villány Mountains. The very eastern and southern parts are flat.
The highest point in the county is Zengő in the Mecsek Mountains, at 682 metres. This is also the highest point of the mountain range.
Baranya is rich in mineral and thermal water, and also in other resources. 98% of Hungary's coal resources are found here.

Neighbours
Tolna County in the North.
Bács-Kiskun County in the East. (across the Danube river)
Croatia in the south (across the Drava river) – Osijek-Baranja County and Virovitica-Podravina County
Somogy County in the Northwest.

Climate
The climate of Baranya is a mix of continental and temperate, which makes it unique in Hungary, as the rest of the country is primarily continental. Its milder climate is due to its southern location and relative proximity to the Mediterranean Sea in comparison to other parts of the country, leaving it with warmer winters. It has the highest average annual rainfall of the Hungarian counties and a high amount of sunshine hours.

History
The area has been inhabited since ancient times. Before the Hungarian tribes conquered the area, it was inhabited by Slavs and Avars. Stephen I founded an episcopal seat here.
In 1526, the county was occupied by Ottomans and was freed in 1689. Its medieval borders remained unchanged until 1919. According to the peace treaty of Trianon, the southern part of the county (1,163 km2, 449 sq mi) reverted to Slavic rule (present-day Croatia). The re-organizing of the counties (1950) brought only minor changes (town of Szigetvár got there).
Baranya has the largest number of minorities in Hungary (more than twice the country average), providing home to 34% of the German minority the so-called Danube Swabians, and 32% of the Southern Slav minorities in Hungary.
The Stifolder or Stiffoller Shvove are a Roman Catholic subgroup of the so-called Danube Swabians. Their ancestors once came ca. 1717 - 1804 from the Hochstift Fulda and surroundings, (Roman Catholic Diocese of Fulda), and settled in the Baranya. They retained their own German dialect and culture, until the end of WW2. After WW2, the majority of Danube Swabians were expelled to allied-occupied Germany and allied-occupied Austria as a result of the Potsdam Agreement.Only a few people can speak the old Stiffolerisch Schvovish dialect. Also a salami is named after these people. Electoral History

Demographics
In 2015, it had a population of 371,110 and the population density was 84/km2.

2011 census
As of the census of 2011, there were 386,441 residents, 160,040 households, and 105,646 families living in the county. The population density was 226 inhabitants per square mile (87/km2). There were 167,453 housing units at an average density of 98 per square mile (38/km2).
There were 160,040 households, of which 63.2% were one-family households, 1.4% were multi-family households, 32.1% were one-person households, and 3.4% were other non-family households. Elderly individuals living alone were 15.9% of all households. The average household size was 2.34.
There were 105,646 families, of which 44.1% were married couples or consensual unions living together with children, 36.4% were couples without children, 16.7% were single females with children, and 2.8% were single males with children. The average family size was 2.82.
The age breakdown of the county was 20.1% under the age of 20, 7.0% between ages 20 and 24, 27.4% aged 25 to 44, 28.3% aged 45 to 64, and 17.2% aged 65 or older. The gender makeup of the county was 47.2% male and 52.8% female.
Religious adherence in the county was 46.8% Roman Catholic, 6.4% Reformed (Calvinist), 1.2% Evangelical (Lutheran), 0.3% Greek Catholic, 0.1% Orthodox, and 1.5% other religions. The non-religious were 16.2% and atheists were 1.5%, with 26.0% declining to answer.

2001 census
As of the census of 2001, there were 407,448 residents, 151,956 households, and 115,946 families living in the county. The population density was 238 inhabitants per square mile (92/km2). There were 156,632 housing units at an average density of 92 per square mile (35/km2).
There were 151,956 households, of which 68.5% were one-family households, 3.8% were multi-family households, 24.9% were one-person households, and 2.7% were other non-family households. Elderly individuals living alone were 13.1% of all households. The average household size was 2.60.
There were 115,946 families, of which 48.7% were married couples or consensual unions living together with children, 35.4% were couples without children, 13.7% were single females with children, and 2.1% were single males with children. The average family size was 2.87.
The age breakdown of the county was 23.0% under the age of 20, 8.1% between ages 20 and 24, 28.0% aged 25 to 44, 26.0% aged 45 to 64, and 14.9% aged 65 or older. The gender makeup of the county was 47.5% male and 52.5% female.
Religious adherence in the county was 64.2% Roman Catholic, 8.7% Reformed (Calvinist), 1.5% Evangelical (Lutheran), 0.5% Greek Catholic, 0.1% Orthodox, and 0.8% other religions. The non-religious were 13.4%, with 10.8% declining to answer.

Ethnicity
Besides the Hungarian majority, the main minorities are the Germans (approx. 22,000), Roma (17,000), Croats (6,000), and Serbs (500).
Total population (2011 census): 386,441
Ethnic groups (2011 census):
Identified themselves: 364,801 persons:

Hungarians: 315,713 (86.54%)
Germans: 22,150 (6.07%)
Romani: 16,995 (4.66%)
Croats: 6,343 (1.74%)
Others and indefinable: 3,600 (0.99%)Approx. 58,000 persons in Baranya County did not declare their ethnic group at the 2011 census.

Regional structure
Politics
County Assembly
The Baranya County Council, elected at the 2019 local government elections, is made up of 18 counselors, with the following party composition:

President of the Assembly
Members of the National Assembly
The following members elected of the National Assembly during the 2022 parliamentary election:

Municipalities
Baranya County has 1 urban county, 13 towns, 3 large villages and 284 villages. There are 301 municipalities.

Like Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, Baranya is a county of extremes when it comes to regional structure. The county seat is one of the five largest cities (and three largest agglomerations) of Hungary, but more than 2/3 of the municipalities are small hamlets with a population under 500. Half of the county's population lives in the county seat or in its immediate vicinity, while 22% of the population lives in villages that have less than 1000 inhabitants.

Cities with county rights(ordered by population, as of 2011 census)

Pécs (156,049) – county seatTowns
Villages
 municipalities are large villages.

Gallery
Notes
Passage 2:
John C. Petersen
John C. Petersen (November 2, 1842 – July 10, 1887) was an American butcher and farmer from Appleton, Wisconsin who served as a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from Outagamie County. He was elected in 1878 as a Greenbacker, and was re-elected the next year as a "Greenback Democrat" (even though he was opposed by a Democrat).

Background
Petersen was born in Glückstadt, Holstein-Glückstadt (now part of Germany but then ruled by the Kings of Denmark) on November 2, 1842. He received a common school education, and became a butcher by occupation. Petersen came to Wisconsin in 1862, and settled in Appleton, where he was elected to various township offices .

Public office
Petersen was elected to the assembly for 1879 from Outagamie County's 1st Assembly district (The City of Appleton, and the Towns of Buchanan, Center, Freedom, Grand Chute and Kaukauna), receiving 1,096 votes against 1,000 for Republican B. T. Rogers (Rep.), and 423 for incumbent William Smith Warner (who had been elected as an "Independent Democrat" but was now the Democratic nominee). He was assigned to the standing committee on public improvements.He was re-elected for 1880 by 963 votes, against 779 for D. J. Brothers, a Democrat, and 434 for P. P. Wing, a Republican. Even though he was re-elected running against a Democrat, he is listed in the 1880 Wisconsin Blue Book as a "Greenback Democrat": there were 71 Republicans, 27 Democrats, Petersen (listed separately as "Greenback Democrat") and one Greenback (David Bean) listed in the Assembly roster for that year. He remained on the public improvements committee. Petersen was not a candidate for re-election for 1881, and was succeeded by Democrat Henry Clay Sloan.

Personal life
Petersen married Wilhelmina "Minnie" Freiberg, born in Stettin, Pomerania in 1849; they were the parents of five children. Petersen was in the butcher business at Appleton for about twenty-five years, then moved to a farm in Grand Chute township which he operated until his retirement, and then returned to Appleton, where he died on July 10, 1887. His widow survived him, living until 1932. They are buried at Riverside Cemetery in Appleton.
Passage 3:
Koh Sotin District
Koh Sotin (Khmer: ស្រុកកោះសូទិន) is a district (srok) located in Kampong Cham province, Cambodia. The district capital is Chi Haer town located around 10 kilometres south of the provincial capital of Kampong Cham by water, but some 42 kilometres by road. The district borders on the southern bank of the Mekong River and includes the islands of Koh Sothin and Koh Mitt in its area.The district is easily accessed by boat from Kampong Cham. Road access however, is via 12 kilometres of secondary road to National road 11 and then a further 18 kilometres to the intersection with National Highway 7. From this intersection in Tbong Khmom district is it a further 12 kilometres west to the provincial capital. This small relatively narrow district follows the south bank of the Mekong for about 25 kilometres. As the district is low lying, much of the land area of the district is inundated when the Mekong rises during the wet season.

An unusual birth
On 11 November 2004, Koh Sotin was home to an unusual birth. A two headed calf was born to a local farmer and a rumour quickly spread that it was a miracle that might help students pass their upcoming exams. Hundreds of students flocked to burn incense and make offerings to the dead calf, hoping that the miracle might increase their brainpower. The farmer who owned the animal packed the dead body in ice to slow decomposition and take advantage of the windfall. Hopeful pilgrims were willing to pay anything from a few cents to a few dollars for an audience with the deceased bovine.

Location
Koh Sotin district is in southern Kampong Cham Province. The Mekong runs along the northern border of the district and the district boundary includes the river itself to midstream. Reading from the north clockwise, Koh Sotin shares a border with Kang Meas and Kampong Siem districts to the north and the district of Kampong Cham to the north east. Tbong Khmom and Ou Reang Ou districts are to the east. To the south is Sithor Kandal district of Prey Veng province and Srei Santhor district lies on the western boundary.

Administration
The Koh Sotin district governor reports to Hun Neng, the Governor of Kampong Cham. The following table shows the villages of Koh Sotin district by commune.

Demographics
The district is subdivided into 8 communes (khum) and 85 villages (phum). According to the 1998 Census, the population of the district was 70,672 persons in 14,187 households in 1998. With a population of over 70,000 people, Koh Sotin has one of the smallest populations for districts in Kampong Cham province after Dambae and Kampong Cham districts. The average household size in Koh Sotin is 5.0 persons per household, which is slightly smaller than the rural average for Cambodia (5.2 persons). The sex ratio in the district is 89.6%, with significantly more females than males.

Tourism
Wat Moha Leap, the only wooden-frame pagoda still standing in Cambodia, is a popular touristic destination located in Koh Sotin District.
Passage 4:
List of capitals in the United States
This is a list of capital cities of the United States, including places that serve or have served as federal, state, insular area, territorial, colonial and Native American capitals.
Washington has been the federal capital of the United States since 1800. Each U.S. state has its own capital city, as do many of its insular areas. Most states have not changed their capital city since becoming a state, but the capital cities of their respective preceding colonies, territories, kingdoms, and republics typically changed multiple times. There have also been other governments within the current borders of the United States with their own capitals, such as the Republic of Texas, Native American nations, and other unrecognized governments.

National capitals
The buildings in cities identified in below chart served either as official capitals of the United States under the United States Constitution, or, prior to its ratification, sites where the Second Continental Congress or Congress of the Confederation met. The United States did not have a permanent capital under the Articles of Confederation.
The U.S. Constitution was ratified in 1787, and gave the Congress the power to exercise "exclusive legislation" over a district that "may, by Cession of particular States, and the acceptance of Congress, become the Seat of the Government of the United States." The 1st Congress met at Federal Hall in New York. In 1790, it passed the Residence Act, which established the national capital at a site along the Potomac River that would become Washington, D.C. For the next ten years, Philadelphia served as the temporary capital. There, Congress met at Congress Hall. On November 17, 1800, the 6th United States Congress formally convened in Washington, D.C. Congress has met outside of Washington only twice since: on July 16, 1987, at Independence Hall in Philadelphia, to commemorate the 200th anniversary of ratification of the Constitution; and at Federal Hall National Memorial in New York on September 6, 2002, to mark the first anniversary of the September 11 attacks. Both meetings were ceremonial.
On July 2, 1923, President Warren G. Harding commented in a speech (or, as a historic marker tells it, "reporters noted")  that the little town of Meacham, Oregon, was the nation's capital "all day long".

State capitals
Each state has a capital that serves as the seat of its government. Ten of the thirteen original states and 15 other states have changed their capital city at least once; the last state to move its capital city was Oklahoma in 1910.
In the following table, the "Since" column shows the year that the city began serving as the state's capital (or the capital of the entities that preceded it). The MSA/µSA and CSA columns display the population of the metro area the city is a part of, and should not be construed to mean the population of the city's sphere of influence or that the city is an anchor for the metro area. Fields colored light yellow denote that the population is a micropolitan statistical area.

Insular area capitals
An insular area is a United States territory that is neither a part of one of the fifty states nor a part of the District of Columbia, the nation's federal district. Those insular areas with territorial capitals are listed below.

Former national capitals
Two of the 50 U.S. states, Hawaii and Texas, were once de jure sovereign states with diplomatic recognition from the international community.

Hawaii
During its history as a sovereign nation (Kingdom of Hawaii, 1795–1893; Republic of Hawaii, 1894–1898), five sites served as the capital of Hawaii:

Waikīkī, 1795–1796
Hilo, 1796–1803
Honolulu, 1803–1812
Kailua-Kona, 1812–1820
Lahaina, 1820–1845
Honolulu, 1845–1898Annexed by the United States in 1898, Honolulu remained the capital, first of the Territory of Hawaii (1900–1959), and then of the state (since 1959).

Texas
During its history as a sovereign nation (Republic of Texas, 1836–1845), seven sites served as the capital of Texas:

Washington (now Washington-on-the-Brazos), 1836
Harrisburg (now part of Houston), 1836
Galveston, 1836
Velasco, 1836
West Columbia, 1836
Houston, 1837–1839
Austin, 1839–1845Annexed by the United States in 1845, Austin remains the capital of the state of Texas.

Native American capitals
Some Native American tribes, in particular the Five Civilized Tribes, organized their states with constitutions and capitals in Western style. Others, like the Iroquois, had long-standing, pre-Columbian traditions of a 'capitol' longhouse where wampum and council fires were maintained with special status. Since they did business with the U.S. Federal Government, these capitals can be seen as officially recognized in some sense.

Cherokee Nation
New Echota 1825–1832New Echota, now near Calhoun, Georgia, was founded in 1825, realizing the dream and plans of Cherokee Chief Major Ridge. Major Ridge chose the site because of its centrality in the historic Cherokee Nation which spanned parts of Georgia, North Carolina, Tennessee and Alabama, and because it was near the confluence of the Conasauga and Coosawattee rivers. The town's layout was partly inspired by Ridge's many visits to Washington D.C. and to Baltimore, but also invoked traditional themes of the Southeastern ceremonial complex. Complete with the Council House, Supreme Court, Cherokee syllabary printing press, and the houses of several of the Nation's constitutional officers, New Echota served as the capital until 1832 when the state of Georgia outlawed Native American assembly in an attempt to undermine the Nation. Thousands of Cherokee would gather in New Echota for the annual National Councils, camping along the nearby rivers and holding long stomp dances in the park-like woods that were typical of many Southeastern Native American settlements.

Red Clay 1832–1838The Cherokee National council grounds were moved to Red Clay, Tennessee, on the Georgia state line, in order to evade the Georgia state militia. The log cabins, limestone springs, and park-like woods of Red Clay served as the capital until the Cherokee Nation was removed to Indian Territory (Oklahoma) on the Trail of Tears.
Tahlequah 1839–1907, 1938–presentTahlequah, in present-day Oklahoma, served as the capital of the original Cherokee Nation after Removal. After the Civil War, a turbulent period for the Nation which was involved in its own civil war resulting from pervasive anger and disagreements over removal from Georgia, the Cherokee Nation built a new National Capitol in Tahlequah out of brick. The building served as the capitol until 1907, when the Dawes Act finally dissolved the Cherokee Nation and Tahlequah became the county seat of Cherokee County, Oklahoma. The Cherokee National government was re-established in 1938 and Tahlequah remains the capital of the modern Cherokee Nation; it is also the capital of the United Keetoowah Band of Cherokee Indians.

Cherokee 20th century–present (Eastern Band of Cherokee)Approximately four to eight hundred Cherokees escaped removal because they lived on a separated tract, purchased later with the help of Confederate Colonel William Holland Thomas, along the Oconaluftee River deep in the Smoky Mountains of North Carolina. Some Cherokees fleeing the Federal Army, sent for the "round up", fled to the remote settlements separated from the rest of the Cherokee Territory in Georgia and North Carolina, in order to remain in their homeland. In the 20th century, their descendants organized as the Eastern Band of Cherokee Indians; its capital is at Cherokee, North Carolina, in the tribally-controlled Qualla Boundary.

Muscogee Creek Nation
Hot Springs, Arkansas c. 1837–1866After Removal from their Alabama-Georgia homeland, the Creek national government met near Hot Springs which was then part of their new territory as prescribed in the Treaty of Cusseta. Because some Creeks fought with the Confederacy in the American Civil War, the Union forced the Creeks to cede over 3,000,000-acre (1,200,000 ha) - half of their land in what is now Arkansas.
Okmulgee 1867–1906Served as the National capital after the American Civil War. It was probably named after Ocmulgee, on the Ocmulgee river in Macon, a principle Coosa and later Creek town built with mounds and functioning as part of the Southeastern ceremonial complex. However, there were other traditional Creek "mother-towns" before removal. The Ocmulgee mounds were ceded illegally in 1821 with the Treaty of Indian Springs.

Iroquois Confederacy
Onondaga (Onondaga privilege c. 1450–present)The Iroquois Confederacy or Haudenosaunee, which means "People of the Longhouse," was an alliance between the Five and later Six-Nations of Iroquoian language and culture of upstate New York. These include the Seneca, Cayuga, Onondaga, Oneida, Mohawk, and, after 1722, the Tuscarora Nations. Since the Confederacy's formation around 1450, the Onondaga Nation has held privilege of hosting the Iroquois Grand Council and the status of Keepers of the Fire and the Wampum —which they still do at the official Longhouse on the Onondaga Reservation. Now spread over reservations in New York and Ontario, the Six Nations of the Haudenosaunee preserve this arrangement to this day in what they claim to be the "world's oldest representative democracy."

Seneca Nation of Indians
Jimerson Town (Allegany Reservation)
Irving (Cattaraugus Reservation)The Seneca Nation republic was founded in 1848 and has two capitals that rotate responsibilities every two years. Jimerson Town was founded in the 1960s following the formation of the Allegheny Reservoir. The Senecas also have an administrative longhouse in Steamburg but do not consider that location to be a capital.

Navajo Nation
Window RockWindow Rock (Navajo: Tségháhoodzání), Arizona, is a small city that serves as the seat of government and capital of the Navajo Nation (1936–present), the largest territory of a sovereign Native American nation in North America. It lies within the boundaries of the St. Michaels Chapter, adjacent to the Arizona and New Mexico state line. Window Rock hosts the Navajo Nation governmental campus which contains the Navajo Nation Council, Navajo Nation Supreme Court, the offices of the Navajo Nation President and Vice President, and many Navajo government buildings.

Unrecognized national capitals
There have been a handful of self-declared or undeclared nations within the current borders of the United States which were never officially recognized as legally independent sovereign entities; however, these nations did have de facto control over their respective regions during their existence.

Colonies of British America
Prior to the independence of the United States from Great Britain, declared July 4, 1776 in the Declaration of Independence and ultimately secured in the American Revolutionary War, several congresses were convened on behalf of some of the colonies of British America. However, these bodies did not address the question of independence from England, and therefore did not designate a national capital. The Second Continental Congress encompassed the period during which the United States declared independence, but had not yet established a permanent national capital.

Vermont Republic
Before joining the United States as the fourteenth state, Vermont was an independent republic known as the Vermont Republic (1777–1791). Three cities served as the capital of the Republic:

Westminster, 1777
Windsor, 1777–?
Castleton, ?–1791The current capital of the State of Vermont is Montpelier.

State of Franklin
The State of Franklin was an autonomous, secessionist United States territory created not long after the end of the American Revolution from territory that later was ceded by North Carolina to the federal government. Franklin's territory later became part of the state of Tennessee. Franklin was never officially admitted into the Union of the United States and existed for only four years.

Jonesborough, Tennessee, 1784–?
Greeneville, Tennessee, 1785?–?

State of Muskogee
The State of Muskogee was a Native American state in Spanish Florida created by the Englishman William Augustus Bowles, who was its "Director General," author of its Constitution, and designer of its flag. It consisted of several tribes of Creeks and Seminoles. It existed from 1799 to 1803. It had one capital:

Miccosukee, 1799–1803

Republic of West Florida
The Republic of West Florida was a short-lived nation that broke away from the territory of Spanish West Florida in 1810.  It comprised the Florida Parishes of the modern state of Louisiana and the Mobile District of the modern states of Mississippi and Alabama. (The Republic of West Florida did not include any part of the modern state of Florida.) Ownership of the area had been in dispute between Spain and the United States, which claimed that it had been included in the Louisiana Purchase of 1803. Within two months of the settlers' rebellion and the declaration of an independent nation, President James Madison sent American forces to peaceably occupy the new republic. It was formally annexed by the United States in 1812 over the objections of Spain and the land was divided between the Territory of Orleans and Territory of Mississippi. During its brief existence, the capital of the Republic of West Florida was:

St. Francisville, Louisiana, 1810

Republic of Indian Stream
The Republic of Indian Stream was an unrecognized independent nation within the present state of New Hampshire.

The area that would become Pittsburg, New Hampshire, 1832–1835

California Republic
Before being annexed by the United States in 1848 (following the Mexican–American War), a small portion of north-central California declared itself the California Republic, in an act of independence from Mexico, in 1846 (see Bear Flag Revolt).  The republic only existed a month before it disbanded itself to join the advancing American army; its claimed territory later became part of the United States as a result of the Mexican Cession.

The very short-lived California Republic was never recognized by the United States, Mexico or any other nation.  The flag, featuring a silhouette of a California grizzly bear, a star, and the words "California Republic", became known as the Bear Flag and was later the basis for the official state flag of California.
There was one de facto capital of the California Republic:

Sonoma, 1846

Confederate States
The Confederate States of America (C.S.A.) had two capitals during its existence. The first capital was established February 4, 1861, in Montgomery, Alabama, and remained there until it was moved to Richmond, Virginia, on May 29, 1861, after Virginia seceded on May 23.
The individual state capitals remained the same in the Confederacy as they had been in the Union (U.S.A.), although as the advancing Union Army used those cities for military districts, some of the Confederate governments were relocated or moved out of state, traveling along with secessionist armies.

Montgomery, February 4, 1861 – May 29, 1861
Richmond, May 29, 1861 – April 3, 1865

Historical state, colonial, and territorial capitals
Most of the original Thirteen Colonies had their capitals occupied or attacked by the British during the American Revolutionary War.  State governments operated where and as they could.  The City of New York was occupied by British troops from 1776 to 1783.  A similar situation occurred during the War of 1812, during the American Civil War in many Confederate states, and during the Pueblo Revolt of 1680–1692 in New Mexico.

Twenty-two state capitals have been a capital longer than their state has been a state, since they served as the capital of a predecessor territory, colony, or republic. Boston, Massachusetts, has been a capital city since 1630; it is the oldest continuously-running capital in the United States. Santa Fe, New Mexico, is the oldest capital city, having become capital in 1610 and interrupted only by the aforementioned Pueblo Revolt. An even older Spanish city, St. Augustine, Florida, served as a colonial capital from 1565 until about 1820, more than 250 years.
The table below includes the following information:

The state, the year in which statehood was granted, and the state's capital are shown in bold type.  NOTE: For the first thirteen states, formerly the Thirteen Colonies of Great Britain on the Atlantic seaboard, the year of statehood is shown as 1776 (United States Declaration of Independence) rather than the subsequent year each state ratified the 1787 United States Constitution. (See List of U.S. states by date of admission to the Union.)
The year listed for each capital is the starting date; the ending date is the starting date for the successor unless otherwise indicated.
In many cases, capital cities of historical jurisdictions were outside of a state's present borders. (Those cities are generally indicated with the two-letter abbreviation for the U.S. state in which the former administrative capital is now located.)

See also
History of the United States
List of largest cities of U.S. states and territories by population
List of state and territorial capitols in the United States
List of states and territories of the United States
Lists of capitals
Outline of United States history
Relocation of the United States Government to Trenton (1799)
Territorial evolution of the United States
Territories of the United States
Timeline of geopolitical changes

Explanatory notes
Passage 5:
Phoenix (German TV station)
Phoenix (stylised as phoenıx, pronounced [ˈføːnɪks]) is a German free-to-air television channel which is operated jointly by public-service broadcasters ARD and ZDF. It broadcasts documentaries, news, special events coverage and discussion programmes. Phoenix's headquarters are in Bonn, the former West German capital.
On November 15th 2022, Phoenix closed its SDTV feed across its cable and satellite feeds, but the SD feed can still be received via an antenna.

Programming
Phoenix broadcasts a deaf-subtitled version of the Tagesschau, ARD's flagship news broadcast, and ZDF's premier news broadcast Heute-Journal, in German Sign Language.
The channel's flagship news broadcast is Der Tag ("The Day"), which airs from 11:00 pm to midnight. Its length enables extended reports and interviews to be included.
The show Vor Ort ("On Scene") includes live coverage of political events, public lectures by important personalities, press conferences and assemblies of the Bundestag and Bundesrat.
Daily talk shows like Phoenix Runde (Phoenix Roundtable) with Alexander Kähler, Unter den Linden with Michaela Kolster or Michael Hirz, discuss current topics with experts or politicians.
As a benchmark in coverage, a "Meet the Press"-like show, Internationaler Frühschoppen is broadcast Sunday at 12 noon when the ARD's Presseclub is not broadcast.
The series "Historische Debatten" ("Historical Debates") and "Historische Ereignisse" ("Historical Events"), with journalist Helmut Illert, examine important topics relating to the development of the Federal Republic of Germany.
Phoenix is comparable to the American channel C-SPAN or the British BBC Parliament, because they also cover government and national politics.

Creation
The creation of Phoenix is credited to the former chancellor Helmut Kohl, who wanted to create a "European Parliamentary Channel". However, the idea was rejected due to criticism by the public channels (ARD and ZDF) and suspicion that political pressure from Kohl could lead to a "Helmut-Kohl-Channel".
The real idea for "Phoenix - Der Ereignis- und Dokumentationskanal" ("Phoenix - the current affairs and documentary channel") came from viewers of ARD and ZDF, who wanted a "media-political correction of faults in the system of information transfer". This created the opportunity to create a "Parliamentary Channel", with the aim of increasing credibility and satisfying consumer demand.
Private channels (RTL and Sat. 1) criticized the creation of Phoenix because they were at the time creating their own news channels (n-tv and N24 respectively).
The headquarters of Phoenix were provisionally situated in Cologne. However, in 2000, the headquarters were relocated to studios in Bonn.
Phoenix's highest ratings to date were in August 2006, when it had 1.0% viewer share. With about 4.5 million viewers, it had more viewers than N-TV and N24.

Alignment of programming
Phoenix's stated aim is it to create "balance of the shortening of information, which are seen in news and magazines on television". The programming should be a "truthful illustration of the reality in correspondence with the constitutional order of the publicly-funded broadcast and television stations in Germany". The target is fulfilled with current reportages and documentaries from the vast archive of ARD and ZDF, as well as international productions from Discovery Channel and the BBC, dubbed into German.

Logo history
Audience share
Germany
Passage 6:
Chol Kiri District
Chol Kiri (Khmer: ស្រុកជលគិរី) is a district (srok) in the east of Kampong Chhnang province, in central  Cambodia. The district capital is Chol Kiri town located around eight km (5.0 mi) south of the provincial capital of Kampong Chhnang by road. Chol Kiri district is the easternmost district of Kampong Chhnang. The district shares a border with Kampong Thom and Kampong Cham provinces to the east. Most of the district is low lying floodplain and the Tonlé Sap river runs through the district roughly from north to south. This proximity to the river and the lack of high land make Chol Kiri one of the most flood prone districts in the country. The Kampong Chhnang Department of Development has estimated that both Chol Kiri and Kampong Leaeng districts are flooded for six months of the year and that after the floodwaters have receded drinking water sources are left contaminated.The district has virtually no significant road infrastructure and all settlements are located along the Tonle Sap river and various smaller tributaries. Chol Kiri district is one of the smallest districts in Kampong Chhnang province by land area and only Kampong Chhnang district is smaller. It also has the smallest district population in the province due to its small size, flooded landscape and lack of road transport infrastructure. Two small tertiary roads run to Chol Kiri town from National Highway 6 in Batheay district in Kampong Cham province.

Location
Chol Kiri district lies in the east of the province and shares a border with Kampong Thom and Kampong Cham provinces. Reading from the north clockwise, Chol Kiri borders with Kampong Leang district to the north and north west and Baray district of Kampong Thom to the north east. The eastern border of the district is shared with Batheay district of Kampong Cham province. To the south the district shares a border with Kampong Tralach district. The western border of the district joins with Rola B'ier district and Kampong Chhnang district which surrounds the provincial capital.

Administration
The district is subdivided into five communes (khum) and 26 villages (phum). The Chol Kiri district governor reports to Touch Marim, the Governor of Kampong Chhnang. The following table shows the villages of Chol Kiri district by commune.

Demographics
According to the 1998 Census, the population of the district was 28,300 persons in 4,918 households in 1998. This population consisted of 13,883 males (49.1%) and 14,417 females (50.9%). With a population of under 30,000 people, Chol Kiri has by far the smallest district populations in Kampong Chhnang province. The average household size in Chol Kiri is 5.8 persons per household, which is significantly larger than the rural average for Cambodia (5.2 persons). The sex ratio in the district is 96.3%, with slightly more females than males.

Murder over burials
On July 6, 2008, a farmer named Lon Chak died from axe wounds to the head in Prey Kiri village, Chol Kiri district. His uncle An Lonh confessed responsibility for the crime to local police. Lonh reported that the crime stemmed from a long-standing dispute with his nephew. The dispute between the two relatives was over burying bodies on farmland belong to Lonh. Lonh reported to police that Chak had already buried two of his relatives on the land against Lonh's wishes. After Chak buried a third body, Lonh attacked his nephew with an axe.
Passage 7:
Capital Bars
Capital Bars plc (formerly known as Break for the Border Group plc) was an Irish leisure company based in Dublin. Its core business was the acquisition, development and operation of bars, hotels and restaurants, all based in Dublin city centre. Brothers Desmond and Liam O'Dwyer control the company as Joint Managing Directors. After acquiring Capital Bars in 2001, the O’Dwyers took the company private the following year.The company was dissolved in 2017 following the sale of all its operational assets.The business originally began in O'Dwyers Bar and Lounge, in Mount Street Dublin 2. This small family run pub was extensively refurbished by elder brother Liam O'Dwyer in the early 1980s and became the first "victorian style" pub of which Dublin is so well known for now. This was also one of the first pubs in Dublin to sell "pub-grub" at lunch times.
The chain reached its peak in number of pubs in the early 2000s, with 11 pubs/nightclubs, one Planet Hollywood franchise and 3 hotels in 2001; but significant numbers of pubs were divested prior to 2009 including Bad Bobs for €12m in 2006. Poor financial performance was reported during the mid-00s.The company entered mixed examinership/receivership on September 19, 2009; five days after poor results showing a 10m euro loss in the previous year.  At that time the portfolio of multi-themed bars (several of them 'superpubs') included: Break for the Border, Café En Seine, Howl at the Moon, The Dragon, and The George, Dublin. All were situated in key locations in Dublin City Centre.
The O'Dwyers repurchased ownership of much of the section of the group put through receivership through their company Toji Holdings, with the other premises exiting examinership; however all properties have since been sold.
The "Zanzibar" pub was closed, and has since been sold for redevelopment as a hotel.The Trinity Capital Hotel was sold in 2013 with the Grafton Capital Hotel sold in 2015, closing for refurbishment afterwards.The remaining pubs - Café En Seine, The Dragon, The George and Howl at the Moon - were sold for a reported €15 million in late 2014 to rival pub and hotel operator Mercantile Group.
Passage 8:
Bondary
Bondary [bɔnˈdarɨ] is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Michałowo, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It lies approximately 14 kilometres (9 mi) south-east of Michałowo and 44 km (27 mi) south-east of the regional capital Białystok.
The village has a population of 330.
Passage 9:
KQSC
KQSC (1530 AM) is a radio station licensed to broadcast from Colorado Springs, Colorado, United States, with a daytime power of 15,000 watts, and can be heard by day from the outskirts of Denver to the state's border with New Mexico.In August 2006, Don Crawford Jr. bought the then-KCMN and a sister station, KCBR, from his father's radio company, Crawford Broadcasting, for an undisclosed amount (formally, KCMN was purchased by a new company called DJR Broadcasting, owned by Crawford). The new owner said that the formats and staffing would stay the same at the stations. Crawford had begun working at Crawford Broadcasting in 1989, and had been a regional manager since 1994, responsible for the company's stations in Colorado Springs, Denver, Dallas, Los Angeles and San Francisco. Following the purchase, Crawford was to continue to manage KAAM in Dallas, which continues to run a "Legends" adult standards format similar to KCMN's former format.Beginning in 2007, the station began broadcasting in HD Radio format.In 2012, DJR Broadcasting sold KCMN (along with sister station KCBR) to the locally owned Pueblo Radio Group. PRG flipped KCMN from "Legends 1530" to an oldies format, even though KCMN added Classic Top 40/Oldies titles from the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s under the ownerships of Crawford Sr. and Jr.
On February 5, 2015, KCMN changed their call letters to KKHI.
On March 18, 2015, Kona Coast Radio closed on their acquisition of KKHI at a price of $200,000. Following the acquisition, KKHI went silent. On October 16, 2015, the station changed their call sign to KQSC.
Effective December 10, 2015, KQSC was sold by Kona Coast Radio to Mountain Radio Group Inc., at a purchase price of $200,000. On January 1, 2016, KQSC flipped to a country music format called Mountain Country 1530.
Passage 10:
WFFG-FM
WFFG-FM (100.3 FM), known as "Froggy 100.3", is a country music radio station licensed to Warrensburg, New York, and is owned by Pamal Broadcasting.  The radio studios and offices are on Everts Avenue in Queensbury, New York.WFFG-FM has an effective radiated power (ERP) of 1,450 watts.  Its transmitter is near Black Spruce Mountain in the town of Warrensburg, Warren County, New York, near the Adirondack Northway.  The tower is shared with WCKM-FM and WCQL.  Thanks to its tall tower, WFFG-FM's signal can be heard as far south as southern Albany and Rensselaer counties, and as far north as Schroon Lake and Elizabethtown.

History
WFFG-FM signed on November 1, 1990, on 100.5 MHz with 6 kilowatts ERP as adult contemporary KB-100 with the WKBE call letters. Locally owned by Karamatt Broadcasting, LLC, KB-100 aired mostly local programming with some off-peak timeslots carrying syndicated programs and also aired local programs such as high school sporting events. These events, however, were soon taken by WCKM-FM when that station signed on.
In 1994, Karamatt filed an application to upgrade for a 6 kilowatt Class A station to a 25 kilowatt Class B1 station as a response to the then-new application of the similarly powered WNYQ with the station moving down to 100.3 MHz in the process. The move took place in summer 1995; however, the increased value of the station led to its sale to Paul Bendat, owner of WABY/WABY-FM/WKLI in Albany in March 1996 after two months of running WKLI's K-Lite format under an LMA. With WKLI's adult contemporary format on the decline, Bendat saw an opportunity, and both WKLI and WKBE flipped to CHR K-100 with the closing of the purchase of WKBE.
Though the initial year of WKBE's new format did well in the ratings, outlasting upstart WHTR, the station soon began to enter a period of decline, and in February 1999, Bendat sold his stations to Tele-Media, Inc. After a three-month stunting period, the stations relaunched as modern adult contemporary The Point that May (with WKLI taking the WCPT calls in the process). After two years of struggling against a relaunched WNYQ in Glens Falls as well as WFLY and WRVE in Albany, Tele-Media sold WCPT and WKBE in August 2001 to Pamal Broadcasting with the sale closing that October.

While WCPT (which reverted to WKLI) took a new format, WKBE instead retained the Point format, though now programming was based out of Glens Falls. This format has evolved over the last decade from the modern adult contemporary approach in place at the outset to a variation more similar to CHR and eventually to a modern rock-leaning format.
From November 22, 2006, to December 25, 2006, the station stunted with a temporary Christmas music format, and after the month-long stint of Christmas music, WKBE began its lean towards a modern rock-oriented format on December 26, by introducing a new logo and slogan (Today's Modern Mix).

After the relaunch in 2006, the station's playlist included mainly modern and active rock artists, such as Alanis Morissette, Evanescence, No Doubt, Red Hot Chili Peppers, and Green Day, as well as pop rock acts such as Kelly Clarkson, Christina Perri, Paramore, Neon Trees, and Avril Lavigne. In the late 2000s, soul music artists such as Adele, Duffy, and KT Tunstall began to be added to the playlist; however, by 2010, the station has become closer to a true modern rock format, although the station still plays some modern AC and AAA artists which are not found on most modern rock stations. By 2012, Arbitron, Mediabase and Nielsen BDS reported the station under the hot adult contemporary format.
On December 27, 2013, WKBE and sister station WFFG-FM swapped formats and call letters; WKBE became a country music format as Froggy 100.3 and WFFG-FM became a modern AC/AAA format as 107.1 The Point.
Passage 11:
Potes
Potes is a municipality in the autonomous community of Cantabria in Spain. It is the capital of the Comarca of Liébana and is located in the centre of it. It is bordered to the north by Cillorigo de Liébana, to the west by Camaleño, to the south by Vega de Liébana and to the east by Cabezón de Liébana.

Geography
The town of Potes is located at the confluence of four valleys, near where the River Quiviesa flows in the River Deva, the latter born at altitudes of the Picos de Europa. Like the rest of the Liébana region, Potes enjoys a Mediterranean microclimate that allows the cultivation of the vines, walnut and poplar. Overlooking the town is Arabedes mountain (694m).

History
Potes is located at a strategic point where the two rivers of Liébana meet: the Deva and its tributary the Quiviesa. There is little trace of prehistoric occupation in the region, but the Romans named it Pontes. A village was founded in the 8th century under Alfonso I of Asturias. Potes appeared for the first time in a document written in 847; the document mentions the parish church and the town. Later in the 10th century, Potes became the administrative centre of the Comarca of Liébana. Potes was considered a city from the 13th century and received royal recognition.
In the Becerro de las Behetrías de Castilla manuscript (1351), Potes appears as the property of Tello Alfonso, son of Alfonso XI of Castile. During the late Middle Ages, like all of Liébana, the town was involved in the confrontation between the families of Manrique Castañeda and Mendoza. In 1444, John II of Castile resolved the issue in favour of the Marquis of Santillana. The Marquis made Potes the capital of Liebana, and erected a large tower, called the Torre del Infantado. In this same period, other prominent buildings, such as the nearby Tower of Orejón de la Lama and the San Cayetano bridge were built.
In the modern age, Potes remained a place of manorialism. The Duke of Infantado appointed its mayor. Many villagers emigrated to America and the riches of the new continent allowed the construction of notable buildings in the village. In 1822, Potes received its own town council, being head of a judicial district covering Potes, Castro and Cillorigo, Cabezón de Liébana, Camaleño, Espinama, Pesaguero, Tresviso and Vega de Liébana. Thirty years later, it was incorporated into the judicial district of San Vicente de la Barquera.
During the Spanish Civil War, Potes was hit by a fire caused by the Republican side that destroyed the old town, it was rebuilt afterwards. The old town was classified as a Conjunto Histórico in 1983.

Economy and infrastructure
The main source of income is from tourism due to its location in the Picos de Europa. Potes is on the national road N-621. The nearest major town, Santander, is 100 km away.

Sites and monuments
The old town, a historical monument, is a maze of alleys and steps with a medieval atmosphere.
It is dominated by the Torre del Infantado, a symbol of Potes, built in the 15th century. It has four floors and forms an imposing stone cube, only relieved by turrets. The tower now houses the City Council.
The old gothic church of San Vicente was built in 15th century and rebuilt from the late 15th century to 17th century, it was replaced in the 19th  century by the new parish church of San Vicente. This has 18th-century altarpieces from the Convent of San Raimundo and a sculpture of Saint Vincent, patron saint of the city. In the square is a monument to the violinist Jesús de Monasterio who was a native of Potes.
The nearby Bridge of San Cayetano overlooks the Rio Quiviesa since the 13th century. At one end is the Ermita de San Cayetano, a chapel which retains its wooden doors and an altarpiece of the 18th century with a portrait of San Cayetano and the Torre de Orejón de la Lama, built from the 15th century to the 17th century and has on its front the shields of Celis and Bedoya. It now serves as a centre for exhibitions and cultural events.
Other houses, the Casona de la Canal (18th century), the Torre de la Familia Osorio (17th century) and the 18th century San Marcial Street, bears the arms of the family Campillo and birthplace of Jesus Monasterio, dating from the same period.
The Ermita de la Virgen del Camino is a chapel of the 18th century in the district of la Serna, it has an altarpiece of the same century. The Convent of San Raimundo was built in the early 17th century by the Benedictines. It remains today as the cloister which houses an exhibition on the Picos de Europa and Comarca of Liébana.
The Ermita de la Virgen de Valmayor, located outside the village, on the road to Vega de Liebana is a chapel built in the 16th century. The altarpiece of the 18th century with the image of the Virgin of Valmayor. This image is carried every 15 August during a procession.

Demographics
Administration
Francisco Javier Gomez Ruiz (PP) is the current mayor of the municipality. The following tables show the results of the elections held in 2003 and 2007.

Cuisine
The best known dish from Potes is the chickpea stew Cocido Lebaniego. Other products from Potes, include various cheeses, honey and the grape brandy Orujo that is made from wine grown in the valley.

Festivals and events
Potes has regular religious processions:

23 January, the day of the martyr Saint Vincent, patron saint of Potes, and it is the occasion of traditional dances and festivities.
Early May, the Liébana is host to the procession of Santuca, one of the biggest in Spain. The statue of the Virgen de la Luz leaves the chapel to join Aniezo Santo Toribio de Liebana.
15 August, the procession of the Virgen de Valmayor is accompanied by dance, music and songs of the Middle Ages.
From 13 to 17 September, there is the festival of the Exaltation of the Cross (the Monastery Santo Toribio claims to retain a fragment of the True Cross). This holiday is declared to be of Regional Tourist Interest.Non-religious, the Feast of the Orujo is also a major event, which takes place in November.
Passage 12:
Carreño
Carreño is a municipality in the autonomous community of the Principality of Asturias, Spain. It is bordered by Corvera de Asturias on the west, Gozón on the north, the Cantabrian Sea on the north and east, and Gijón on the east and south. Its capital is Candás.

History
As characteristic of other sites in Asturias, artifacts from the Neolithic era were also found in Carreño. Tumuli, dolmens and hill forts in the region provide evidence for the 100,000-year-old history of the area.

Parishes
(The number preceding the parish name refers to its location on the parroquias map)

Candás (capital)
Perlora
Albandi
Carrió
Pervera (Asturian: Prevera)
Prendes (Asturian: Priendes)
Piedeloro (Asturian: Pieloro)
Logrezana (Asturian: Llorgozana)
Guimarán
El Valle
Ambás
Tamón

Politics
Culture
La iglesia de San Félix church built under Fruela II in the 9th century
La iglesia de Santa María de Logrezana church finished in the 19th century.
La iglesia de Santa María de Piedeloro church built  in the 13th century
La iglesia parroquial de Ambás parish church from the 18th century
La ermita de San Antonio hermitage from the 16th century
El palacio de Estrada Mora palace from the 16th century

Notable people
Antón de Marirreguera, 17th-century writer, and one of the first to write in Asturian.
Juan Carreño de Miranda (March 1614 - September 1685) was a Spanish painter of the Baroque period.
Passage 13:
CIBX-FM
CIBX-FM (106.9 MHz) is a commercial radio station in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada, owned by Bell Media and known as Move 106.9. It broadcasts an adult contemporary format. The studios and offices are on Rookwood Avenue in Fredericton, shared with sister stations CFXY-FM and CKHJ.CIBX-FM has an effective radiated power (ERP) of 78,000 watts, horizontal polarization only.  The transmitter is on Provincial Route 620 at Route 617, at Hamtown Corner in Douglas, northwest of Fredericton.

History
CIBX traces its history to the first radio station in New Brunswick, CFNB.  The call letters stood for Fredericton, New Brunswick. The station went on the air under the experimental call sign of 10AD, broadcasting at 1210 kilocycles in 1923.  It was granted a full license as CFNB in 1926. CFNB then moved to 1030 in 1933, and to 550 in 1934.
The station was affiliated with the CBC's Trans-Canada Network. In 1959 the station increased its power to 50,000 watts, giving it full-time coverage over most of the Maritime Provinces. The CBC affiliation was dropped in 1964 when the network started its own station in Fredericton, CBZ. CFNB played a full service, adult contemporary format before switching to oldies in the early 1990s.
In 1996, CFNB's parent company, Radio Atlantic, was granted permission to move its signal to 106.9 FM and to shut down the AM transmitter. The call sign changed in the process, and after a brief simulcast period, CFNB 550 signed off the air on June 11 of that year. The new station, CIBX, played soft adult contemporary music. The former CFNB call sign now belongs to a radio station in D'Arcy, British Columbia, known as CFNB-FM. Over time, CIBX evolved towards adult contemporary.
Between 2000 and 2005, CIBX used the on-air "EZ Rock" branding along with other stations in Canada, while using Capital FM as a secondary name.  Eventually, "EZ Rock" was phased out as a moniker.
As of July 18, 2012, CIBX officially flipped to Top 40/CHR. It was one of two Top 40 outlets in the Fredericton radio market as it took on rival station CFRK-FM. The competition lasted nearly three years.   On May 31, 2015, CFRK flipped to country music, which left CIBX as the only Top 40 station in the market.CIBX and seven other radio stations in the Atlantic Provinces are currently owned by Bell Media.
On December 27, 2020, as part of a mass format reorganization by Bell Media, CIBX shifted to Hot AC and rebranded as Move 106.9. While the station ran without DJs for the first week of the format, the on-air staff returned on January 4, 2021.In 2022, CIBX flipped back to adult contemporary music.

Former logos
Passage 14:
Sinzongo
Sinzongo is a village in the Lobaye region in the Central African Republic southwest of the capital, Bangui and near the border with the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Nearby towns and villages include Pissa, (1.4 nm), Boali (1.4 nm), Boyama (2.2 nm), Seoundou (8.2 nm), Boundara (8.0 nm) and Ancien Bakani (11.3 nm).
Passage 15:
Pulaski High School
Pulaski High School is a public high school in Pulaski, Wisconsin, United States, in Brown County (school district also serves parts of Shawano, Outagamie and Oconto counties), that serves students in grades 9 through 12.  Its mascot is the Red Raider.

History
The original school was built in 1909, with additions throughout the next five decades. In 1975, the high school took over an existing school along with other additions, most notably an indoor swimming pool. Another new building was built in 1998 due to a rapidly growing population.

Academics
Pulaski offers Advanced Placement classes. The student to teacher ratio is 18 to 1.

Demographics
Over 90 percent of the student body is Caucasian, while 2.9 percent are American Indian, 2.5 percent are Hispanic, 1.4 percent are African American and 1.0 percent are Asian. The school is split 51/49 male to female, while just over 22 percent of the school is eligible for free or reduced lunch.

Athletics
State championships
Boys' Basketball: 2013
Wrestling: 1969, 1974, 1993 (all runner-up)
Football: 1980 (runner-up)
Softball: 1996 (runner-up)
Cross Country: 2004 (runner-up)
Rugby: 2009, 2010, 2014, 2015, 2018Pulaski has also had a number of individual state champions.
In 2016, Pulaski citizens privately funded a $4.9 million athletic expansion project, including a new football stadium, track, baseball and softball fields, as well as expanding the tennis facilities.

Incident involving Mike McCarthy
On February 27, 2019, the school became the center of attention during a basketball game against Notre Dame Academy after former Green Bay Packers head coach Mike McCarthy was berating officials during the game. A complaint was submitted to the Wisconsin Interscholastic Athletic Association following the incident. McCarthy's behavior was criticized as "unacceptable" from the Notre Dame Academy and Pulaski athletic director Janet Batten. A day later, McCarthy apologized for the incident.

Music
The Red Raider Marching Band performed in the 2007, 2012, and 2017 Rose Parades and in the 2003 Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade in New York City.

Notable alumni
Jacqui Banaszynski, Pulitzer Prize-winning writer
Jeremy Borseth, NFL punter
Carey Lohrenz, F-14 Tomcat pilot
Neil Worden, NFL fullback
Passage 16:
Ou Reang Ov District
Ou Reang Ov District (Khmer: ស្រុកអូរាំងឪ) is a district (srok) located in Tboung Khmum Province, Cambodia. The district capital is Ou Reang Ov town located around 30 kilometres south of the provincial capital of Kampong Cham by road. Ou Reang Ov lies on the border where Tboung Khmum, Kampong Cham and Prey Veng provinces meet; the town of Prey Veng is only 42 kilometres away by road.Prior to 31 December 2013 when Tboung Khmum Province was formed by royal decree, the district was part of Kampong Cham Province. Ou Reang Ov is easily accessed by road from Kampong Cham or Prey Veng town. Ou Reang Ov is a long narrow district located in southern Tboung Khmum. A large rubber plantation covers the northern part of the district. Ou Reang Ov town lies on National Highway 11 which runs from Neak Leung in Prey Veng province to an intersection with National Highway 7 at Thnal Totoung in Tboung Kmom District.

Location
Ou Reang Ov district lies in the southwestern region of Tboung Khmum Province, sharing a border with Prey Veng Province to the south and Kampong Cham to the west. Reading from the north clockwise, Ou Reang Ov borders with Tboung Khmum District to the north and Ponhea Kraek District to the east, while Kanhchriech and Sithor Kandal districts of Prey Veng Province are to the south. Sithor Kandal district continues from the south to wrap around the lower western border of the district and Koh Sotin district of Kampong Cham makes up the remainder of the western border.

Operation Pacific Angel
In 2008, Ou Reang Ov district was home to a humanitarian mission from Operation Pacific Angel. Operation Pacific Angel is a recurring joint/combined humanitarian assistance mission sponsored by United States Pacific Command (USPACOM) designed to bring humanitarian civic assistance and civil-military operations to areas in need in the Pacific region. In May 2008, the first Pacific Angel mission took place. Members of the US Air Force, US Army, and US Marine Corps conducted the twofold mission to Cambodia and Thailand. At the Ou Reang Ov district hospital, medical and dental programs were set up to see patients along with doctors from the Royal Cambodian Armed Forces and the Children’s Surgical Centre. Medical staff provided cost-free general medical care, women's health care, and ophthalmology/optometry care to a total of more than 6,000 people in Kampong Chhnang and what was then part of Kampong Cham.

Administration
The Ou Reang Ov district governor reports to the Governor of Tboung Khmum. The following table shows the villages of Ou Reang Ov district by commune.

Demographics
The district is subdivided into 7 communes (khum) and 141 villages (phum). According to the 1998 Census, the population of the district was 82,806 persons in 16,940 households in 1998. With a population of over 80,000 people, Ou Reang Ov district has one of the smaller district populations in Tboung Khmum province. The average household size in Ou Reang Ov is 4.9 persons per household, which is slightly lower than the rural average for Cambodia (5.2 persons). The sex ratio in the district is 90.5%, with significantly more females than males.
Passage 17:
Province of Toledo
Toledo is a province of central Spain, in the western part of the autonomous community of Castile–La Mancha. It is bordered by the provinces of Madrid, Cuenca, Ciudad Real, Badajoz, Cáceres, and Ávila. Its capital is the city of Toledo.

Demography
Of the province's 711,228 people (2012), only about 1/9 live in the capital, Toledo, which is also the capital of the autonomous community. The most populated municipalities in the province are Toledo and Talavera de la Reina with 83,741 and 83,303 inhabitants each (INE, 2017).
The province contains 204 municipalities. The smallest municipality in Spain, Illán de Vacas, with a population of 8, is in Toledo province. See List of municipalities in Toledo.

Population development
The historical population is given in the following chart:

Politics and government
Provincial government and administration
The government body of the province is the Provincial Deputation of Toledo. Its seat is located at Toledo. The members of the plenary of the deputation (diputación) are indirectly elected from among the municipal councillors in the province based on the results of the municipal elections. In turn, the plenary elects the president of the deputation from among its members.

Representation of the Central Government
The Government of Spain appoints a Government Sub-delegate for the province, whose headquarters are located at Toledo. The Government Delegate charged with the representation in the whole autonomous community of Castile–La Mancha also has its seat in Toledo.

Coat of arms
Since 2013 the province of Toledo uses the arms of the city, the imperial double-headed eagle Sable bearing an escutcheon with the arms of Castile and Leon, party per pale with the arms of the former Kingdom of Toledo. The eagle is flanked by the pillars of Hercules.

Geography
The province shares the Parque Nacional de Cabañeros with the province of Ciudad Real. The Corocho de Rocigalgo, located in the Montes de Toledo, is the highest point of the province (1,448 m). The Tagus crosses the province from the northeast to the west. Some right-bank tributaries are the Guadarrama, the Alberche or the Tiétar.

See also
List of municipalities in Toledo
Passage 18:
KRSU (FM)
Minnesota Public Radio broadcasts on 43 stations that serve Minnesota and its neighboring communities and 42 translators providing additional local coverage.  (40 + 41 = 81 total.)  Stations are located in Minnesota, Wisconsin (La Crosse), North Dakota (Fargo and Grand Forks), South Dakota (Sioux Falls), Michigan (Houghton), Iowa (Decorah), and Idaho (Sun Valley). MPR also operates KPCC in Pasadena, California.
Most areas are served by both a classical music station and a news and information station. One location is covered by a single station that combines both services. Two locations are served by a classical music station, a news and information station, and The Current.
MPR's newest service, The Current, is available in Austin, Hinckley, Mankato, the Twin Cities, New Ulm, Rochester and St. Peter.
Minnesota Public Radio also broadcasts all three of its services — News, Classical and The Current — on HD Radio in several communities throughout the state of Minnesota. In the Twin Cities, MPR multicasts "Classical 24", BBC News and "More", a Spanish language service from Radio Netherlands called "Ahora", and "Wonderground Radio", a service specifically geared towards children.

Gray background indicates a network flagship.
Blue background indicates an FM translator.
Passage 19:
Jerome Quinn
Jerome Quinn (May 23, 1908 – February 29, 2008) was a Wisconsin politician and realtor.Born in Green Bay, Wisconsin, Quinn was a realtor and served on the Green Bay Common Council, the Brown County, Wisconsin Board of Supervisors, the local Board of Education, and the Wisconsin State Assembly from 1955 until 1973. He was a Republican.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: longbench
- Context ID: bc3bffc6d5225554ca182514ca4520d1
- Approx. Length: 15757 characters