# Context

Certain information has been excluded from this agreement (indicated by “[***]”)
because such information (i) is not material and (ii) would be competitively
harmful if publicly disclosed.

EXHIBIT 10.1

LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT

THIS LOAN AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this “Agreement”) dated as of March 10, 2020
(the “Effective Date”) between SILICON VALLEY BANK, a California corporation
(“Bank”), and VERRICA PHARMACEUTICALS INC., a Delaware corporation (“Borrower”),
provides the terms on which Bank shall lend to Borrower and Borrower shall repay
Bank.  The parties agree as follows:  

1ACCOUNTING AND OTHER TERMS

Accounting terms not defined in this Agreement shall be construed following
GAAP. Calculations and determinations must be made following GAAP; provided that
if at any time any change in GAAP would affect the computation of any financial
ratio or requirement set forth in any Loan Document, and either Borrower or Bank
shall so request, Borrower and Bank shall negotiate in good faith to amend such
ratio or requirement to preserve the original intent thereof in light of such
change in GAAP; provided further, that until so amended, (a) such ratio or
requirement shall continue to be computed in accordance with GAAP prior to such
change therein and (b) Borrower shall provide Bank with financial statements and
other documents required under this Agreement or as reasonably requested
hereunder setting forth a reconciliation between calculations of such ratio or
requirement made before and after giving effect to such change in GAAP. In
addition, no effect shall be given to Accounting Standards Codification 842,
Leases (or any other Accounting Standards Codification having similar result or
effect) (and related interpretations) to the extent any lease (or similar
arrangement) would be required to be treated as a capital lease thereunder where
such lease (or arrangement) would have been treated as an operating lease under
GAAP as in effect immediately prior to the effectiveness of such Accounting
Standards Codification. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all financial covenant
and other financial calculations shall be computed with respect to Borrower
only, and not on a consolidated basis.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined
in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in Section 13.  All other
terms contained in this Agreement, unless otherwise indicated, shall have the
meaning provided by the Code to the extent such terms are defined therein.

2LOAN AND TERMS OF PAYMENT

2.1Promise to Pay.  Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay Bank the
outstanding principal amount of all Credit Extensions and accrued and unpaid
interest thereon as and when due in accordance with this Agreement.

2.2Revolving Line.

(a)Availability.  Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and to
deduction of Reserves, Bank shall make Advances not exceeding the Availability
Amount. Amounts borrowed under the Revolving Line may be repaid and, prior to
the Revolving Line Maturity Date, reborrowed, subject to the applicable terms
and conditions precedent herein.

(b)Termination; Repayment.  The Revolving Line terminates on the Revolving Line
Maturity Date, when the principal amount of all Advances, the unpaid interest
thereon, and all other Obligations relating to the Revolving Line shall be
immediately due and payable. Borrower may terminate the Revolving Line pursuant
to the terms of Section 12.1 of this Agreement.

2.3Overadvances.  If, at any time, the outstanding principal amount of any
Advances exceeds the lesser of either the Revolving Line or the Borrowing Base,
Borrower shall immediately pay to Bank in cash the amount of such excess (such
excess, the “Overadvance”). Without limiting Borrower’s obligation to repay Bank
any Overadvance, Borrower agrees to pay Bank interest on the outstanding amount
of any Overadvance, on demand, at a per annum rate equal to the rate that is
otherwise applicable to Advances plus four percent (4.0%).

2.4Payment of Interest on the Credit Extensions.

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(a)Interest Rate.  Subject to Section 2.4(b), the principal amount outstanding
under the Revolving Line shall accrue interest at a floating per annum rate
equal to the greater of (A) one and one-quarter of one percent (1.25%) above the
Prime Rate and (B) six percent (6.0%), which interest, in each case, shall be
payable monthly in accordance with Section 2.5(d) below.

(b)Default Rate.  Immediately upon the occurrence and during the continuance of
an Event of Default, Obligations shall bear interest at a rate per annum which
is four percent (4.0%) above the rate that is otherwise applicable thereto (the
“Default Rate”).  Fees and expenses which are required to be paid by Borrower
pursuant to the Loan Documents (including, without limitation, Bank Expenses)
but are not paid when due shall bear interest until paid at a rate equal to the
highest rate applicable to the Obligations.  Payment or acceptance of the
increased interest rate provided in this Section 2.4(b) is not a permitted
alternative to timely payment and shall not constitute a waiver of any Event of
Default or otherwise prejudice or limit any rights or remedies of Bank.

(c)Adjustment to Interest Rate.  Changes to the interest rate of any Credit
Extension based on changes to the Prime Rate shall be effective on the effective
date of any change to the Prime Rate and to the extent of any such change.

(d) Payment; Interest Computation.  Interest is payable monthly on the Payment
Date of each month and shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year for the
actual number of days elapsed.  In computing interest, (i) all payments received
after 12:00 p.m. Eastern time on any day shall be deemed received at the opening
of business on the next Business Day, and (ii) the date of the making of any
Credit Extension shall be included and the date of payment shall be excluded;
provided, however, that if any Credit Extension is repaid on the same day on
which it is made, such day shall be included in computing interest on such
Credit Extension.

2.5Fees.  Borrower shall pay to Bank:  

(a)Revolving Line Commitment Fee. A fully earned, non-refundable revolving line
commitment fee of Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00), on the Effective
Date;

(b)Anniversary Fee.For each twelve (12) month anniversary of the Effective Date,
a non-refundable anniversary fee (each, an “Anniversary Fee” and, collectively,
the “Anniversary Fees”) equal to Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) which
shall be fully earned as of the Effective Date and due and payable on the
earliest to occur of (i) such twelve (12) month anniversary of the Effective
Date, (ii) the Revolving Line Maturity Date, (iii) the occurrence of an Event of
Default, and (iv) the termination of this Agreement;

(c)Termination Fee.  Upon termination of this Agreement or the termination of
the Revolving Line for any reason prior to the Revolving Line Maturity Date, in
addition to the payment of any other amounts then-owing, a termination fee in an
amount equal to one percent (1.0%) of the Revolving Line (the “Termination
Fee”); provided that no Termination Fee shall be charged if the credit facility
hereunder is replaced with a new facility from Bank; and

(d)Bank Expenses.  All Bank Expenses (including reasonable attorneys’ fees and
expenses for documentation and negotiation of this Agreement) incurred through
and after the Effective Date, when due (or, if no stated due date, upon demand
by Bank).

Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or in a separate writing by Bank,
Borrower shall not be entitled to any credit, rebate, or repayment of any fees
earned by Bank pursuant to this Agreement notwithstanding any termination of
this Agreement or the suspension or termination of Bank’s obligation to make
loans and advances hereunder.  Bank may deduct amounts owing by Borrower under
the clauses of this Section 2.5 pursuant to the terms of Section 2.6(c).  Bank
shall provide Borrower written notice of deductions made from the Designated
Deposit Account pursuant to the terms of the clauses of this Section 2.5.

2.6Payments; Application of Payments; Debit of Accounts.  

2

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(a)All payments to be made by Borrower under any Loan Document shall be made in
immediately available funds in Dollars, without setoff or counterclaim, before
12:00 p.m. Eastern time on the date when due.  Payments of principal and/or
interest received after 12:00 p.m. Eastern time are considered received at the
opening of business on the next Business Day.  When a payment is due on a day
that is not a Business Day, the payment shall be due the next Business Day, and
additional fees or interest, as applicable, shall continue to accrue until
paid.  

(b)Bank has the exclusive right to determine the order and manner in which all
payments with respect to the Obligations may be applied.  Borrower shall have no
right to specify the order or the accounts to which Bank shall allocate or apply
any payments required to be made by Borrower to Bank or otherwise received by
Bank under this Agreement when any such allocation or application is not
specified elsewhere in this Agreement.

(c)Bank may debit any of Borrower’s deposit accounts, including the Designated
Deposit Account, for principal and interest payments or any other amounts
Borrower owes Bank when due.  These debits shall not constitute a set-off.

2.7Withholding.   Payments received by Bank from Borrower under this Agreement
will be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all present or
future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, withholdings, assessments,
fees or other charges imposed by any Governmental Authority (including any
interest, additions to tax or penalties applicable thereto).  Specifically,
however, if at any time any Governmental Authority, applicable law, regulation
or international agreement requires Borrower to make any withholding or
deduction from any such payment or other sum payable hereunder to Bank, Borrower
hereby covenants and agrees that the amount due from Borrower with respect to
such payment or other sum payable hereunder will be increased to the extent
necessary to ensure that, after the making of such required withholding or
deduction, Bank receives a net sum equal to the sum which it would have received
had no withholding or deduction been required, and Borrower shall pay the full
amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority.  Borrower
will, upon request, furnish Bank with proof reasonably satisfactory to Bank
indicating that Borrower has made such withholding payment; provided, however,
that Borrower need not make any withholding payment if the amount or validity of
such withholding payment is contested in good faith by appropriate and timely
proceedings and as to which payment in full is bonded or reserved against by
Borrower.  The agreements and obligations of Borrower contained in this Section
2.7 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

3CONDITIONS OF LOANS

3.1Conditions Precedent to Initial Credit Extension.  Bank’s obligation to make
the initial Credit Extension is subject to the condition precedent that Bank
shall have received, in form and substance satisfactory to Bank, such documents,
and completion of such other matters, as Bank may reasonably deem necessary or
appropriate, including, without limitation:

(a)duly executed signatures to the Mezzanine Loan Agreement and satisfaction of
the conditions therein;

(b)duly executed signatures to the Loan Documents;

(c)the Operating Documents and a long-form good standing certificate of Borrower
certified by the Secretary of State of Delaware and each other state in which
Borrower is qualified to conduct business, each as of a date no earlier than
thirty (30) days prior to the Effective Date;

(d)duly executed signatures to the secretary’s corporate borrowing certificate
of Borrower with respect to such Borrower’s Operating Documents, incumbency,
specimen signatures and resolutions authorizing the execution and delivery of
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which it is a party;

(e)duly executed signatures to the completed Borrowing Resolutions for Borrower;

3

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(f)certified copies, dated as of a recent date, of financing statement searches,
as Bank may request, accompanied by written evidence (including any UCC
termination statements) that the Liens indicated in any such financing
statements either constitute Permitted Liens or have been or, in connection with
the initial Credit Extension, will be terminated or released;

(g)the Perfection Certificate of Borrower, together with the duly executed
signature thereto;

(h)with respect to the initial Advance, the completion of the Initial Audit;

(i)with respect to the initial Advance, a completed Borrowing Base Report (and
any schedules related thereto and including any other information requested by
Bank with respect to Borrower’s Accounts); and

(j)payment of the fees and Bank Expenses then due as specified in Section 2.6
hereof.

3.2Conditions Precedent to all Credit Extensions.  Bank’s obligations to make
each Credit Extension, including the initial Credit Extension, is subject to the
following conditions precedent:

(a)timely receipt of the Credit Extension request and any materials and
documents required by Section 3.4;

(b)the representations and warranties in this Agreement shall be true, accurate,
and complete in all material respects on the date of the proposed Credit
Extension and on the Funding Date of each Credit Extension; provided, however,
that such materiality qualifier shall not be applicable to any representations
and warranties that already are qualified or modified by materiality in the text
thereof; and provided, further that those representations and warranties
expressly referring to a specific date shall be true, accurate and complete in
all material respects as of such date, and no Event of Default shall have
occurred and be continuing or result from the Credit Extension.  Each Credit
Extension is Borrower’s representation and warranty on that date that the
representations and warranties in this Agreement remain true, accurate, and
complete in all material respects; provided, however, that such materiality
qualifier shall not be applicable to any representations and warranties that
already are qualified or modified by materiality in the text thereof; and
provided, further that those representations and warranties expressly referring
to a specific date shall be true, accurate and complete in all material respects
as of such date; and

(c)Bank determines to its reasonable satisfaction that there has not been any
material impairment in the general affairs, management, results of operation,
financial condition or the prospect of repayment of the Obligations, nor any
material adverse deviation by Borrower from the most recent business plan of
Borrower presented to and accepted by Bank.

3.3Covenant to Deliver.  Borrower agrees to deliver to Bank each item required
to be delivered to Bank under this Agreement as a condition precedent to any
Credit Extension.  Borrower expressly agrees that a Credit Extension made prior
to the receipt by Bank of any such item shall not constitute a waiver by Bank of
Borrower’s obligation to deliver such item, and the making of any Credit
Extension in the absence of a required item shall be in Bank’s sole discretion.

3.4Procedures for Borrowing.  Subject to the prior satisfaction of all other
applicable conditions to the making of an Advance set forth in this Agreement,
to obtain an Advance, Borrower (via an individual duly authorized by an
Administrator) shall notify Bank (which notice shall be irrevocable) by
electronic mail by 12:00 p.m. Eastern time on the Funding Date of the
Advance.  Such notice shall be made by Borrower through Bank’s online banking
program, provided, however, if Borrower is not utilizing Bank’s online banking
program, then such notice shall be in a written format acceptable to Bank that
is executed by an Authorized Signer.  Bank shall have received satisfactory
evidence that the Board has approved that such Authorized Signer may provide
such notices and request Advances.  In connection with any such notification,
Borrower must promptly deliver to Bank by electronic mail or through Bank’s
online banking program such reports and information, including without
limitation, Borrowing Base Reports, sales journals, cash receipts journals,
accounts receivable aging reports, as

4

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Bank may reasonably request in its sole discretion.  Bank shall credit proceeds
of an Advance to the Designated Deposit Account.  Bank may make Advances under
this Agreement based on instructions from an Authorized Signer or without
instructions if the Advances are necessary to meet Obligations which have become
due.

4CREATION OF SECURITY INTEREST

4.1Grant of Security Interest.  Borrower hereby grants Bank, to secure the
payment and performance in full of all of the Obligations, a continuing security
interest in, and pledges to Bank, the Collateral, wherever located, whether now
owned or hereafter acquired or arising, and all proceeds and products thereof.  

Borrower acknowledges that it previously has entered, and/or may in the future
enter, into Bank Services Agreements with Bank.  Regardless of the terms of any
Bank Services Agreement, Borrower agrees that any amounts Borrower owes Bank
thereunder shall be deemed to be Obligations hereunder and that it is the intent
of Borrower and Bank to have all such Obligations secured by the first priority
perfected security interest in the Collateral granted herein (subject only to
Permitted Liens that are permitted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to
have superior priority to Bank’s Lien in this Agreement).

If this Agreement is terminated, Bank’s Lien in the Collateral shall continue
until the Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity obligations) are repaid in
full in cash.  Upon payment in full in cash of the Obligations (other than
inchoate indemnity obligations) and at such time as Bank’s obligation to make
Credit Extensions has terminated, Bank shall, at the sole cost and expense of
Borrower, release its Liens in the Collateral and all rights therein shall
revert to Borrower.  In the event (x) all Obligations (other than inchoate
indemnity obligations), except for Bank Services, are satisfied in full, and (y)
this Agreement is terminated, Bank shall terminate the security interest granted
herein upon Borrower providing cash collateral acceptable to Bank in its good
faith business judgment consistent with Bank’s then current practice for Bank
Services, if any.  In the event such Bank Services consist of outstanding
Letters of Credit, Borrower shall provide to Bank cash collateral in an amount
equal to (x) if such Letters of Credit are denominated in Dollars, then at least
one hundred five percent (105.0%); and (y) if such Letters of Credit are
denominated in a Foreign Currency, then at least one hundred ten percent
(110.0%), of the Dollar Equivalent of the face amount of all such Letters of
Credit plus all interest, fees, and costs due or to become due in connection
therewith (as estimated by Bank in its business judgment), to secure all of the
Obligations relating  to such  Letters of Credit.

4.2Priority of Security Interest.  Borrower represents, warrants, and covenants
that the security interest granted herein is and shall at all times continue to
be a first priority perfected security interest in the Collateral (subject only
to Permitted Liens that are permitted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to
have superior priority to Bank’s Lien under this Agreement).  If Borrower shall
acquire a commercial tort claim, Borrower shall promptly notify Bank in a
writing signed by Borrower of the general details thereof and grant to Bank in
such writing a security interest therein and in the proceeds thereof, all upon
the terms of this Agreement, with such writing to be in form and substance
reasonably satisfactory to Bank.

4.3Authorization to File Financing Statements.  Borrower hereby authorizes Bank
to file financing statements, without notice to Borrower, with all appropriate
jurisdictions to perfect or protect Bank’s interest or rights hereunder,
including a notice that any disposition of the Collateral, by either Borrower or
any other Person, shall be deemed to violate the rights of Bank under the
Code.   Such financing statements may indicate the Collateral as “all assets of
the Debtor” or words of similar effect, or as being of an equal or lesser scope,
or with greater detail, all in Bank’s discretion.

5REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES

Borrower represents and warrants as follows:

5.1Due Organization, Authorization; Power and Authority.  Borrower is duly
existing and in good standing as a Registered Organization in its jurisdiction
of formation and is qualified and licensed to do business and is in good
standing in any jurisdiction in which the conduct of its business or its
ownership of property requires that it be qualified except where the failure to
do so could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on
Borrower’s business.  In connection with this Agreement, Borrower has delivered
to Bank a

5

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

completed certificate signed by Borrower, entitled “Perfection Certificate” (the
“Perfection Certificate”).  Borrower represents and warrants to Bank that (a)
Borrower’s exact legal name is that indicated on the Perfection Certificate and
on the signature page hereof; (b) Borrower is an organization of the type and is
organized in the jurisdiction set forth in the Perfection Certificate; (c) the
Perfection Certificate accurately sets forth Borrower’s organizational
identification number or accurately states that Borrower has none; (d) the
Perfection Certificate accurately sets forth Borrower’s place of business, or,
if more than one, its chief executive office as well as Borrower’s mailing
address (if different than its chief executive office); (e) Borrower (and each
of its predecessors) has not, in the past five (5) years, changed its
jurisdiction of formation, organizational structure or type, or any
organizational number assigned by its jurisdiction; and (f) all other
information set forth on the Perfection Certificate pertaining to Borrower and
each of its Subsidiaries is accurate and complete in all material respects (it
being understood and agreed that Borrower may from time to time update certain
information in the Perfection Certificate after the Effective Date to the extent
permitted by one or more specific provisions in this Agreement).  If Borrower is
not now a Registered Organization but later becomes one, Borrower shall promptly
notify Bank of such occurrence and provide Bank with Borrower’s organizational
identification number.

The execution, delivery and performance by Borrower of the Loan Documents to
which it is a party have been duly authorized, and do not (i) conflict with any
of Borrower’s organizational documents, (ii) contravene, conflict with,
constitute a default under or violate any material Requirement of Law, (iii)
contravene, conflict or violate any applicable order, writ, judgment,
injunction, decree, determination or award of any Governmental Authority by
which Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their property or assets may
be bound or affected, (iv) require any action by, filing, registration, or
qualification with, or Governmental Approval from, any Governmental Authority
(except (i) such Governmental Approvals which have already been obtained and are
in full force and effect or are being obtained pursuant to Section 6.1(b), and
(ii) any filings required by the Code in connection with perfecting the security
interest granted herein), or (v) conflict with, contravene, constitute a default
or breach under, or result in or permit the termination or acceleration of, any
material agreement by which Borrower is bound.  Borrower is not in default under
any agreement to which it is a party or by which it is bound in which the
default could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on
Borrower’s business.  

5.2Collateral.  Borrower has good title to, rights in, and the power to transfer
each item of the Collateral upon which it purports to grant a Lien hereunder,
free and clear of any and all Liens except Permitted Liens.  Borrower has no
Collateral Accounts at or with any bank or financial institution other than Bank
or Bank’s Affiliates except for the Collateral Accounts described in the
Perfection Certificate delivered to Bank in connection herewith or established
in accordance with Section 6.8(b) and which Borrower has taken such actions as
are necessary to give Bank a perfected security interest therein, pursuant to
the terms of Section 6.8(b).  The Accounts are bona fide, existing obligations
of the Account Debtors.  

The Collateral is not in the possession of any third party bailee (such as a
warehouse) except as otherwise provided in the Perfection Certificate or as
permitted pursuant to Section 7.2.  None of the components of the Collateral
shall be maintained at locations other than as provided in the Perfection
Certificate or as permitted pursuant to Section 7.2.

All Inventory is in all material respects of good and marketable quality, free
from material defects.

Borrower is the sole owner of the Intellectual Property which it owns or
purports to own except for (a) licenses permitted hereunder, (b)
over-the-counter software that is commercially available to the public, and (c)
material Intellectual Property licensed to Borrower and noted on the Perfection
Certificate or as otherwise disclosed to Bank in writing. To Borrower’s
knowledge, each Patent which it owns or purports to own and which is material to
Borrower’s business is valid and enforceable, and no part of the Intellectual
Property which Borrower owns or purports to own and which is material to
Borrower’s business has been judged invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in
part.  To the best of Borrower’s knowledge, no claim has been made that any part
of the Intellectual Property violates the rights of any third party except to
the extent such claim would not reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect on Borrower’s business.

Except as noted on the Perfection Certificate or as otherwise disclosed to Bank
in writing pursuant to Section 6.10(b), Borrower is not a party to, nor is it
bound by, any Restricted License.

6

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

5.3Accounts Receivable.  

(a)For each Account with respect to which Advances are requested, on the date
each Advance is requested and made, such Account shall be an Eligible Account.

(b)All statements made and all unpaid balances appearing in all invoices,
instruments and other documents evidencing the Eligible Accounts are and shall
be true and correct and all such invoices, instruments and other documents, and
all of Borrower’s Books are genuine and in all respects what they purport to
be.  All sales and other transactions underlying or giving rise to each Eligible
Account shall comply in all material respects with all applicable laws and
governmental rules and regulations.  Borrower has no knowledge of any actual or
imminent Insolvency Proceeding of any Account Debtor whose accounts are Eligible
Accounts in any Borrowing Base Report.  To the best of Borrower’s knowledge, all
signatures and endorsements on all documents, instruments, and agreements
relating to all Eligible Accounts are genuine, and all such documents,
instruments and agreements are legally enforceable in accordance with their
terms.

5.4Litigation. There are no actions or proceedings pending or, to the knowledge
of any Responsible Officer, threatened in writing by or against Borrower or any
of its Subsidiaries involving more than, individually or in the aggregate, Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00).

5.5Financial Statements; Financial Condition. All consolidated financial
statements for Borrower and any of its Subsidiaries delivered to Bank fairly
present in all material respects Borrower’s consolidated financial condition and
Borrower’s consolidated results of operations as of the date or for the period
covered by such financial statements (except with respect to unaudited financial
statements, subject to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of
footnotes). There has not been any material deterioration in Borrower’s
consolidated financial condition since the date of the most recent financial
statements submitted to Bank.

5.6Solvency.  The fair salable value of Borrower’s consolidated assets
(including goodwill minus disposition costs) exceeds the fair value of
Borrower’s liabilities; Borrower is not left with unreasonably small capital
after the transactions in this Agreement; and Borrower is able to pay its debts
(including trade debts) as they mature.

5.7Regulatory Compliance.  Borrower is not an “investment company” or a company
“controlled” by an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of
1940, as amended.  Borrower is not engaged as one of its important activities in
extending credit for margin stock (under Regulations X, T and U of the Federal
Reserve Board of Governors).  Borrower (a) has complied in all material respects
with all applicable Requirements of Law except where Borrower’s failure to do so
could not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Borrower’s
business, and (b) has not violated any Requirements of Law the violation of
which could reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on its
business.  None of Borrower’s or any of its Subsidiaries’ properties or assets
has been used by Borrower or any Subsidiary or, to the best of Borrower’s
knowledge, by previous Persons, in disposing, producing, storing, treating, or
transporting any hazardous substance other than legally.  Borrower and each of
its Subsidiaries have obtained all consents, approvals and authorizations of,
made all declarations or filings with, and given all notices to, all
Governmental Authorities that are necessary to continue their respective
businesses as currently conducted except where Borrower’s failure to do so could
not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on Borrower’s
business.

5.8Subsidiaries; Investments.  Borrower does not own any stock, partnership, or
other ownership interest or other equity securities except for Permitted
Investments.  

5.9Tax Returns and Payments; Pension Contributions.  Borrower has timely filed
all required tax returns and reports, or duly filed valid extensions thereof,
and Borrower has timely paid when due and payable all foreign, federal, state
and local taxes, assessments, deposits and contributions owed by Borrower except
(a) to the extent such taxes are being contested in good faith by appropriate
proceedings promptly instituted and diligently conducted, so long as such
reserve or other appropriate provision, if any, as shall be required in
conformity with GAAP shall have been made therefor, or (b) if such taxes,
assessments, deposits and contributions do not, individually or in the
aggregate, exceed Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00).  

7

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To the extent Borrower defers payment of any contested taxes, Borrower shall (i)
notify Bank in writing of the commencement of, and any material development in,
the proceedings, and (ii) post bonds or take any other steps required to prevent
the Governmental Authority levying such contested taxes from obtaining a Lien
upon any of the Collateral that is other than a “Permitted Lien.”  Borrower is
unaware of any claims or adjustments proposed for any of Borrower’s prior tax
years which could result in additional taxes becoming due and payable by
Borrower in excess of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00).  Borrower has paid
all amounts necessary to fund all present pension, profit sharing and deferred
compensation plans in accordance with their terms, and Borrower has not
withdrawn from participation in, and has not permitted partial or complete
termination of, or permitted the occurrence of any other event with respect to,
any such plan which could reasonably be expected to result in any liability of
Borrower, including any liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or
its successors or any other governmental agency.

5.10Use of Proceeds.  Borrower shall use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions
as working capital and to fund its general business requirements and not for
personal, family, household or agricultural purposes.

5.11Full Disclosure. No written representation, warranty or other statement of
Borrower in any certificate or written statement given to Bank, as of the date
such representation, warranty, or other statement was made, taken together with
all such written certificates and written statements given to Bank, contains any
untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements contained in the certificates or statements not
misleading (it being recognized by Bank that the projections and forecasts
provided by Borrower in good faith and based upon reasonable assumptions are not
viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by
such projections and forecasts may differ from the projected or forecasted
results).

5.12Definition of “Knowledge.”  For purposes of the Loan Documents, whenever a
representation or warranty is made to Borrower’s knowledge or awareness, to the
“best of” Borrower’s knowledge, or with a similar qualification, knowledge or
awareness means the actual knowledge, after reasonable investigation, of any
Responsible Officer.

6AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS

Borrower shall do all of the following:

6.1Government Compliance.  

(a)Except as permitted under Section 7.3, maintain its and all its Subsidiaries’
legal existence and good standing in their respective jurisdictions of formation
and maintain qualification in each jurisdiction in which the failure to so
qualify would reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on
Borrower’s business or operations; provided, that nothing in this Section 6.1
shall prohibit or prevent Borrower from discontinuing the legal existence and
qualification of any Immaterial Subsidiary in any jurisdiction other than its
jurisdiction of formation, with prior written notice to Bank, if in the
reasonable good faith judgment of Borrower such discontinuance or qualification
is no longer desirable in the conduct of its business or such Subsidiary is no
longer useful to the business of Borrower or such Subsidiary.  Borrower shall
comply, and have each Subsidiary comply, in all material respects, with all
laws, ordinances and regulations to which it is subject, the failure to comply
with which would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect
on Borrower’s business or operations.

(b)Obtain all of the Governmental Approvals necessary for the performance by
Borrower of its obligations under the Loan Documents to which it is a party and
the grant of a security interest to Bank in all of its property.  Borrower shall
promptly provide copies of any such obtained Governmental Approvals to Bank.

6.2Financial Statements, Reports, Certificates. Provide Bank with the following:

(a)a Borrowing Base Report (and any schedules related thereto and including any
other information requested by Bank with respect to Borrower’s Accounts) (i)
within thirty (30) days after the end of each month when an Advance is
outstanding and (ii) with each request for an Advance;

8

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(b)within thirty (30) days after the end of each month when an Advance is
outstanding or has been requested, (i) monthly accounts receivable agings, aged
by invoice date, (ii) monthly accounts payable agings, aged by invoice date, and
outstanding or held check registers, if any, (iii) monthly reconciliations of
accounts receivable agings (aged by invoice date), transaction reports, and
general ledger and (iv) monthly perpetual inventory reports for Inventory valued
on a first-in, first-out basis at the lower of cost or market (in accordance
with GAAP) or such other inventory reports as are requested by Bank in its good
faith business judgment;  

(c)within thirty (30) days after the last day of each month and together with
Borrower’s monthly revenue, net profit and cash balance statements, a duly
completed Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer, certifying
that as of the end of such month, Borrower was in full compliance with all of
the terms and conditions of this Agreement, and setting forth calculations
showing compliance with the financial covenants set forth in this Agreement and
such other information as Bank may reasonably request, including, without
limitation, a statement that at the end of such month there were no held checks;

(d)as soon as available, but no later than forty-five (45) days after the end of
each calendar quarter (ninety (90) days for the calendar quarter ending December
31 of each fiscal year), a company prepared consolidated balance sheet and
income statement covering Borrower’s and each of its Subsidiary’s operations for
such calendar quarter certified by a Responsible Officer and in a form
acceptable to Bank (the “Quarterly Financial Statements”);

(e)within forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter (ninety
(90) days for the calendar quarter ending December 31 of each fiscal year) and
together with the Quarterly Financial Statements, a duly completed Compliance
Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer, certifying that as of the end of
such calendar quarter, Borrower was in full compliance with all of the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, and setting forth calculations showing compliance
with the financial covenants set forth in this Agreement and such other
information as Bank may reasonably request, including, without limitation, a
statement that at the end of such month there were no held checks

(f)within thirty (30) days after the last day of each fiscal year of Borrower,
and contemporaneously with any updates or amendments thereto, (A) annual
operating budgets (including income statements, balance sheets and cash flow
statements, by month), and (B) annual financial projections (on a quarterly
basis), in each case as approved by the Board, together with any related
business forecasts used in the preparation of such annual financial projections;

(g)as soon as available, and in any event within one hundred eighty (180) days
following the end of Borrower’s fiscal year, (A) audited consolidated financial
statements prepared under GAAP, consistently applied, together with an
unqualified opinion on the financial statements from an independent certified
public accounting firm reasonably acceptable to Bank and (B) a duly completed
Compliance Certificate signed by a Responsible Officer, certifying that as of
the end of such calendar year, Borrower was in full compliance with all of the
terms and conditions of this Agreement, and setting forth calculations showing
compliance with the financial covenants set forth in this Agreement and such
other information as Bank may reasonably request, including, without limitation,
a statement that at the end of such month there were no held checks;

(h)within forty-five (45) days after the last day of each fiscal quarter (ninety
(90) days for the calendar quarter ending December 31 of each fiscal year),
Borrower’s 10-Q report;

(i)within five (5) days of filing, copies of all periodic and other reports,
proxy statements and other materials filed by Borrower and/or any Guarantor with
the SEC, any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of
the SEC or with any national securities exchange, or distributed to its
shareholders, as the case may be.  Documents required to be delivered pursuant
to the terms hereof (to the extent any such documents are included in materials
otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so
delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date on which Borrower
posts such documents, or provides a link thereto, on Borrower’s website on the
internet at Borrower’s website address;

(j)within five (5) days of delivery, copies of all statements, reports and
notices made available to Borrower’s security holders or to any holders of
Subordinated Debt;

9

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(k)prompt written notice of any changes to the beneficial ownership information
set out in Section 14 of the Perfection Certificate.  Borrower understands and
acknowledges that Bank relies on such true, accurate and up-to-date beneficial
ownership information to meet Bank’s regulatory obligations to obtain, verify
and record information about the beneficial owners of its legal entity
customers;

(l)prompt report of any legal actions pending or threatened in writing against
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries that could result in damages or costs to
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of, individually or in the aggregate, Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) or more; and

(m)promptly, from time to time, such other information regarding Borrower or
compliance with the terms of any Loan Documents as reasonably requested by Bank.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, documents required to be delivered pursuant to
the terms hereof (to the extent any such documents are included in materials
otherwise filed with the SEC), including without limitation any documents
required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 6.2(e), 6.2(h), 6.2(i), 6.2(l) and
6.2(m), may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to
have been delivered on the date on which Borrower posts such documents, or
provides a link thereto, on Borrower’s website on the internet at Borrower’s
website address.

6.3Accounts Receivable.

(a)Schedules and Documents Relating to Accounts.  Borrower shall deliver to Bank
transaction reports and schedules of collections, as provided in Section 6.2, on
Bank’s standard forms; provided, however, that Borrower’s failure to execute and
deliver the same shall not affect or limit Bank’s Lien and other rights in all
of Borrower’s Accounts, nor shall Bank’s failure to advance or lend against a
specific Account affect or limit Bank’s Lien and other rights therein.  If
requested by Bank, Borrower shall furnish Bank with copies (or, at Bank’s
request, originals) of all contracts, orders, invoices, and other similar
documents, and all shipping instructions, delivery receipts, bills of lading,
and other evidence of delivery, for any goods the sale or disposition of which
gave rise to such Accounts.  In addition, Borrower shall deliver to Bank, on its
request, the originals of all instruments, chattel paper, security agreements,
guarantees and other documents and property evidencing or securing any Accounts,
in the same form as received, with all necessary indorsements, and copies of all
credit memos.  

(b)Disputes.  Borrower shall promptly notify Bank of all disputes or claims
relating to Accounts in an amount in excess of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($500,000.00) individually or in the aggregate.  Borrower may forgive
(completely or partially), compromise, or settle any Account for less than
payment in full, or agree to do any of the foregoing so long as (i) Borrower
does so in good faith, in a commercially reasonable manner, in the ordinary
course of business, in arm’s-length transactions, and reports the same to Bank
in the regular reports provided to Bank; (ii) no Event of Default has occurred
and is continuing; and (iii) after taking into account all such discounts,
settlements and forgiveness, the total outstanding Advances will not exceed the
lesser of the Revolving Line or the Borrowing Base.

(c)Collection of Accounts.  Within thirty (30) days prior to the initial
Advance, Borrower shall direct Account Debtors to deliver or transmit all
proceeds of Accounts into a lockbox account, or into a “blocked account” as
specified by Bank (either such account, the “Cash Collateral Account”).  Whether
or not an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Borrower shall
immediately deliver all payments on and proceeds of Accounts to the Cash
Collateral Account.  Subject to Bank’s right to maintain a reserve pursuant to
Section 6.3(d), all amounts received in the Cash Collateral Account shall be
transferred on a daily basis to Borrower’s operating account with
Bank.  Borrower hereby authorizes Bank to transfer to the Cash Collateral
Account any amounts that Bank reasonably determines are proceeds of the Accounts
(provided that Bank is under no obligation to do so and this allowance shall in
no event relieve Borrower of its obligations hereunder).  

(d)Reserves.  Notwithstanding any terms in this Agreement to the contrary, at
times when an Event of Default exists, Bank may hold any proceeds of the
Accounts and any amounts in the Cash Collateral Account that are not applied to
the Obligations pursuant to Section 6.3(c) above as a reserve to be applied to
any Obligations regardless of whether such Obligations are then due and payable.

10

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(e)Returns.  Provided no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, if any
Account Debtor returns any Inventory with a value in excess of Five Hundred
Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) individually and in the aggregate to Borrower,
Borrower shall promptly (i) determine the reason for such return, (ii) issue a
credit memorandum to the Account Debtor in the appropriate amount, and (iii)
provide a copy of such credit memorandum to Bank, upon request from Bank.  In
the event any attempted return occurs after the occurrence and during the
continuance of any Event of Default, Borrower shall hold the returned Inventory
in trust for Bank, and immediately notify Bank of the return of the Inventory.  

(f)Verifications; Confirmations; Credit Quality; Notifications.  Bank may, from
time to time, (i) verify and confirm directly with the respective Account
Debtors the validity, amount and other matters relating to the Accounts, either
in the name of Borrower or Bank or such other name as Bank may choose, and
notify any Account Debtor of Bank’s security interest in such Account and/or
(ii) conduct a credit check of any Account Debtor to approve any such Account
Debtor’s credit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the occurrence and the
continuance of an Event of Default, Bank shall notify Borrower prior to making
direct contact with an Account Debtor.

(g)No Liability.  Bank shall not be responsible or liable for any shortage or
discrepancy in, damage to, or loss or destruction of, any goods, the sale or
other disposition of which gives rise to an Account, or for any error, act,
omission, or delay of any kind occurring in the settlement, failure to settle,
collection or failure to collect any Account, or for settling any Account in
good faith for less than the full amount thereof, nor shall Bank be deemed to be
responsible for any of Borrower’s obligations under any contract or agreement
giving rise to an Account.  Nothing herein shall, however, relieve Bank from
liability for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.

6.4Remittance of Proceeds.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.3(c),
deliver, in kind, all proceeds arising from the disposition of any Collateral to
Bank in the original form in which received by Borrower not later than the
following Business Day after receipt by Borrower, to be applied to the
Obligations (a) prior to an Event of Default, pursuant to the terms of Section
6.3(c) hereof, and (b) after the occurrence and during the continuance of an
Event of Default, pursuant to the terms of Section 9.4 hereof; provided that, if
no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Borrower shall not be
obligated to remit to Bank the proceeds of the sale of worn out or obsolete
Equipment disposed of by Borrower in good faith in an arm’s length transaction
for an aggregate purchase price of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00)
or less (for all such transactions in any fiscal year).  Borrower agrees that it
will not commingle proceeds of Collateral with any of Borrower’s other funds or
property, but will hold such proceeds separate and apart from such other funds
and property and in an express trust for Bank.  Nothing in this Section 6.4
limits the restrictions on disposition of Collateral set forth elsewhere in this
Agreement.

6.5Taxes; Pensions.  Timely file, and require each of its Subsidiaries to timely
file, all required tax returns and reports and timely pay, and require each of
its Subsidiaries to timely pay, all foreign, federal, state and local taxes,
assessments, deposits and contributions owed by Borrower and each of its
Subsidiaries, except for deferred payment of any taxes contested pursuant to the
terms of Section 5.9 hereof, and shall deliver to Bank, on demand, appropriate
certificates attesting to such payments, and pay all amounts necessary to fund
all present pension, profit sharing and deferred compensation plans in
accordance with their terms.

6.6Access to Collateral; Books and Records. At reasonable times, on one (1)
Business Day’s notice (provided no notice is required if an Event of Default has
occurred and is continuing), Bank, or its agents, shall have the right to
inspect the Collateral and the right to audit and copy Borrower’s Books. The
foregoing inspections and audits shall be conducted no more often than twice
every twelve (12) months unless an Event of Default has occurred and is
continuing in which case such inspections and audits shall occur as often as
Bank shall determine is necessary. The foregoing inspections and audits shall be
conducted at Borrower’s expense and the charge therefor shall be One Thousand
Dollars ($1,000.00) per person per day (or such higher amount as shall represent
Bank’s then-current standard charge for the same), plus reasonable out-of-pocket
expenses.  In the event Borrower and Bank schedule an audit more than eight (8)
days in advance, and Borrower cancels or seeks to or reschedules the audit with
less than eight (8) days written notice to Bank, then (without limiting any of
Bank’s rights or remedies) Borrower shall pay Bank a fee of Two Thousand Dollars
($2,000.00) plus any out-of-pocket expenses incurred by Bank to compensate Bank
for the anticipated costs and expenses of the cancellation or rescheduling.

11

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

6.7Insurance.  

(a)Keep its business and the Collateral insured for risks and in amounts
customary for companies in Borrower’s industry and location and as Bank may
reasonably request.  Insurance policies shall be in a form, with financially
sound and reputable insurance companies that are not Affiliates of Borrower, and
in amounts that are reasonably satisfactory to Bank.  All property policies
shall have a lender’s loss payable endorsement showing Bank as the sole lender
loss payee.  All liability policies shall show, or have endorsements showing,
Bank as an additional insured.  Bank shall be named as lender loss payee and/or
additional insured with respect to any such insurance providing coverage in
respect of any Collateral.

(b)Ensure that proceeds payable under any property policy are, at Bank’s option,
payable to Bank on account of the Obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
(a) so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Borrower
shall have the option of applying the proceeds of any casualty policy toward the
replacement or repair of destroyed or damaged property; provided that any such
replaced or repaired property (i) shall be of equal or like value as the
replaced or repaired Collateral and (ii) shall be deemed Collateral in which
Bank has been granted a first priority security interest, and (b) after the
occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, all proceeds
payable under such casualty policy shall, at the option of Bank, be payable to
Bank on account of the Obligations.

(c)At Bank’s request, Borrower shall deliver certified copies of insurance
policies and evidence of all premium payments.  Each provider of any such
insurance required under this Section 6.7 shall agree, by endorsement upon the
policy or policies issued by it or by independent instruments furnished to Bank,
that it will give Bank thirty (30) days (ten (10) days for nonpayment of
premium) prior written notice before any such policy or policies shall be
canceled.  If Borrower fails to obtain insurance as required under this Section
6.7 or to pay any amount or furnish any required proof of payment to third
persons and Bank, Bank may make all or part of such payment or obtain such
insurance policies required in this Section 6.7, and take any action under the
policies Bank deems prudent.

6.8Accounts.

(a)Maintain all of its and all of its Subsidiaries’ operating accounts, the Cash
Collateral Account and excess cash with Bank and Bank’s Affiliates.  In addition
to the foregoing, Borrower shall conduct all of its primary banking with Bank,
including, letters of credit and business credit cards. Any Guarantor shall
maintain all operating accounts and excess cash with Bank and Bank’s Affiliates.

(b)In addition to and without limiting the restrictions in (a), Borrower shall
provide Bank five (5) days prior written notice before establishing any
Collateral Account at or with any bank or financial institution other than Bank
or Bank’s Affiliates. For each Collateral Account that Borrower at any time
maintains, Borrower shall cause the applicable bank or financial institution
(other than Bank) at or with which any Collateral Account is maintained to
execute and deliver a Control Agreement or other appropriate instrument with
respect to such Collateral Account to perfect Bank’s Lien in such Collateral
Account in accordance with the terms hereunder which Control Agreement may not
be terminated without the prior written consent of Bank.  The provisions of the
previous sentence shall not apply to deposit accounts exclusively used for
payroll, payroll taxes, and other employee wage and benefit payments to or for
the benefit of Borrower’s employees and identified to Bank by Borrower as such.

6.9Financial Covenant – Trailing Six (6) Month Net Revenue.  During a Testing
Period, Borrower shall achieve (calculated with respect to Borrower only and not
on a consolidated basis) for the most recent calendar quarter then-ended and
each calendar quarter thereafter if such Testing Period is still in effect,
minimum net revenue, generated from the sale of Borrower’s products (excluding
revenue generated with respect to licensing arrangements), determined in
accordance with GAAP, measured on a trailing six (6) month basis, of at least:

Trailing Six (6) Month Period Ending

Minimum Revenue

 

September 30, 2020

[***]

12

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

December 31, 2020

[***]

March 31, 2021

[***]

June 30, 2021

 

September 30, 2021

 

December 31, 2021

[***]

 

[***]

 

[***]

 

With respect to the period ending March 31, 2022 and each calendar quarter
thereafter, the levels of minimum revenue shall be mutually agreed upon between
Borrower and Bank, based upon, among other factors, Borrower’s Board-approved
operating plan and financial projections and Bank’s then current credit
underwriting. With respect thereto, Borrower’s failure to agree in writing
(which agreement shall be set forth in a written amendment to this Agreement) on
or before March 15, 2022, to any net revenue covenant levels proposed by Bank
with respect to any period from March 31, 2022 through and including December
31, 2023, shall result in an immediate Event of Default for which there shall be
no grace or cure period.

6.10Protection of Intellectual Property Rights.  

(a)(i) Use commercially reasonable efforts to protect, defend and maintain the
validity and enforceability of its Intellectual Property material to Borrower’s
business; (ii) promptly advise Bank in writing of material infringements or any
other event that could reasonably be expected to materially and adversely affect
the value of its Intellectual Property material to Borrower’s business; and
(iii) not allow any Intellectual Property material to Borrower’s business to be
abandoned, forfeited or dedicated to the public without Bank’s written consent.

(b)Provide written notice to Bank within ten (10) days of entering or becoming
bound by any Restricted License (other than over-the-counter software that is
commercially available to the public).  Borrower shall take such commercially
reasonable steps as Bank reasonably requests to obtain the consent of, or waiver
by, any person whose consent or waiver is necessary for (i) any Restricted
License to be deemed “Collateral” and for Bank to have a security interest in it
that might otherwise be restricted or prohibited by law or by the terms of any
such Restricted License, whether now existing or entered into in the future, and
(ii) Bank to have the ability in the event of a liquidation of any Collateral to
dispose of such Collateral in accordance with Bank’s rights and remedies under
this Agreement and the other Loan Documents.

6.11Litigation Cooperation.  From the date hereof and continuing through the
termination of this Agreement, make available to Bank, without expense to Bank,
Borrower and its officers, employees and agents and Borrower’s books and
records, to the extent that Bank may deem them reasonably necessary to prosecute
or defend any third-party suit or proceeding instituted by or against Bank with
respect to any Collateral or relating to Borrower.

6.12Online Banking.  

              (a)Utilize Bank’s online banking platform for all matters
requested by Bank which shall include, without limitation (and without request
by Bank for the following matters), uploading information pertaining to Accounts
and Account Debtors, requesting approval for exceptions, requesting Credit
Extensions, and uploading financial statements and other reports required to be
delivered by this Agreement (including, without limitation, those described in
Section 6.2 of this Agreement).

               (b)

Comply with the terms of Bank’s Online Banking Agreement as in effect from time
to time and ensure that all persons utilizing Bank’s online banking platform are
duly authorized to do so by an Administrator.  Bank shall be entitled to assume
the authenticity, accuracy and completeness of any information, instruction or
request for a Credit Extension submitted via Bank’s online banking platform and
to further assume

13

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

that any submissions or requests made via Bank’s online banking platform have
been duly authorized by an Administrator.

6.13Further Assurances.  Execute any further instruments and take further action
as Bank reasonably requests to perfect or continue Bank’s Lien in the Collateral
or to effect the purposes of this Agreement.  Deliver to Bank, within five (5)
days after the same are sent or received, copies of all material correspondence,
reports, documents and other material filings with any Governmental Authority
regarding compliance with or maintenance of Governmental Approvals or
Requirements of Law or that could reasonably be expected to have a material
effect on any of the Governmental Approvals or otherwise on the operations of
Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.

6.14Formation or Acquisition of Subsidiaries.  Notwithstanding and without
limiting the negative covenants contained in Sections 7.3 and 7.7 hereof, at the
time that Borrower or any Guarantor forms any direct or indirect Subsidiary or
acquires any direct or indirect Subsidiary after the Effective Date (including,
without limitation, pursuant to a Division), Borrower and such Guarantor shall
(a) cause such new Subsidiary to provide to Bank a joinder to this Agreement to
become a co-borrower hereunder, together with such appropriate financing
statements and/or Control Agreements, all in form and substance satisfactory to
Bank (including being sufficient to grant Bank a first priority Lien (subject to
Permitted Liens) in and to the assets of such newly formed or acquired
Subsidiary), (b) provide to Bank appropriate certificates and powers and
financing statements, pledging all of the direct or beneficial ownership
interest in such new Subsidiary, in form and substance satisfactory to Bank; and
(c) provide to Bank all other documentation in form and substance satisfactory
to Bank, including one or more opinions of counsel satisfactory to Bank, which
in its opinion is appropriate with respect to the execution and delivery of the
applicable documentation referred to above.  Any document, agreement, or
instrument executed or issued pursuant to this Section 6.14 shall be a Loan
Document.

6.15Post-Closing Deliverables.  Deliver to Bank (i) within sixty (60) days after
the Effective Date, (A) a bailee’s waiver in favor of Bank for each of the
following locations where Borrower maintains property with a third party: (1)
Pharma Packaging Solutions - 341 JD Yarnell Industrial Parkway, Clinton, TN
37716, (2) Sterling Pharmaceutical Services LLC - 102 Coulter Road, East
Carondelet, IL 62240, and (3) Albany Molecular Research, Inc. - 33 Riverside
Avenue, Rensselaer, NY 12144, by the respective third party thereof, together
with the duly executed original signatures thereto, and (B) evidence
satisfactory to Bank that the insurance policies and endorsements required by
Section 6.7 hereof are in full force and effect, together with appropriate
evidence showing lender loss payable and/or additional insured clauses or
endorsements in favor of Bank, and (ii) within forty-five (45) days after the
Effective Date, (A) a completed Marketing Consent Form, together with the duly
executed signature thereto and (B) duly executed signatures to the Control
Agreement with U.S. Bank and SVB Asset Management.

7NEGATIVE COVENANTS

Borrower shall not do any of the following without Bank’s prior written consent:

7.1Dispositions.  Convey, sell, lease, transfer, assign, or otherwise dispose of
(including, without limitation, pursuant to a Division) (collectively,
“Transfer”), or permit any of its Subsidiaries to Transfer, all or any part of
its business or property, except for Transfers (a) of Inventory in the ordinary
course of business; (b) of worn-out, surplus or obsolete Equipment that is, in
the reasonable judgment of Borrower, no longer economically practicable to
maintain or useful in the ordinary course of business of Borrower; (c)
consisting of Permitted Liens and Permitted Investments; (d) consisting of the
sale or issuance of any stock of Borrower permitted under Section 7.2 of this
Agreement; (e) consisting of Borrower’s use or transfer of money or Cash
Equivalents in a manner that is not prohibited by the terms of this Agreement or
the other Loan Documents; (f) of non-exclusive licenses for the use of the
property of Borrower or its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business and
licenses that could not result in a legal transfer of title of the licensed
property but that may be exclusive in respects other than territory and that may
be exclusive as to territory only as to discrete geographical areas outside of
the United States; (g) subject to the limitations set forth in Section 6.7(b)
with respect to the remittance of proceeds, Transfers of any property subject to
a casualty event; (h) consisting of the abandonment, cancellation, non-renewal
or discontinuance of use or maintenance of any Intellectual Property (or rights
relating thereto) that Borrower determined in its good faith business judgment
is no longer material to Borrower’s business and not materially disadvantageous
to the interests

14

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

of Bank; and (i) not otherwise permitted by this Section 7.1, in an aggregate
amount not to exceed Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000.00) in any
twelve (12) month period.

7.2Changes in Business, Management, Control, or Business Locations.  (a) Engage
in or permit any of its Subsidiaries to engage in any business other than the
businesses currently engaged in by Borrower and such Subsidiary, as applicable,
or reasonably related thereto; (b) liquidate or dissolve; (c) fail to provide
notice to Bank of any Key Person departing from or ceasing to be employed by
Borrower within five (5) days after such Key Person’s departure from Borrower;
or (d) permit or suffer any Change in Control.  

Borrower shall not, without at least ten (10) days prior written notice to Bank:
(1) add any new offices or business locations, including warehouses (unless such
new offices or business locations contain less than Two Hundred Fifty Thousand
Dollars ($250,000.00) in Borrower’s assets or property) or deliver any portion
of the Collateral valued, individually or in the aggregate, in excess of Two
Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000.00) to a bailee at a location other
than to a bailee and at a location already disclosed in the Perfection
Certificate, excluding contract manufacturers or clinical sites, (2) change its
jurisdiction of organization, (3) change its organizational structure or type,
(4) change its legal name, or (5) change any organizational number (if any)
assigned by its jurisdiction of organization.  If Borrower intends to add any
new offices or business locations, including warehouses, containing in excess of
Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000.00) of Borrower's assets or
property, then Borrower will cause such landlord of any such new offices or
business locations, including warehouses, to execute and deliver a landlord
consent in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Bank. If Borrower
intends to deliver any portion of the Collateral valued, individually or in the
aggregate, in excess of Two Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($250,000.00) to a
bailee, and Bank and such bailee are not already parties to a bailee agreement
governing both the Collateral and the location to which Borrower intends to
deliver the Collateral, then Borrower will cause such bailee to execute and
deliver a bailee agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to
Bank, excluding contract manufacturers or clinical sites.  

7.3Mergers or Acquisitions.  Merge or consolidate, or permit any of its
Subsidiaries to merge or consolidate, with any other Person, or acquire, or
permit any of its Subsidiaries to acquire, all or substantially all of the
capital stock or property of another Person (including, without limitation, by
the formation of any Subsidiary or pursuant to a Division) other than Permitted
Acquisitions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Subsidiary may merge or
consolidate into another Subsidiary or into Borrower.

7.4Indebtedness.  Create, incur, assume, or be liable for any Indebtedness, or
permit any Subsidiary to do so, other than Permitted Indebtedness.

7.5Encumbrance.  Create, incur, allow, or suffer any Lien on any of its
property, or assign or convey any right to receive income, including the sale of
any Accounts, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do so, except for Permitted
Liens and Transfers permitted by Section 7.1, permit any Collateral not to be
subject to the first priority security interest granted herein (subject only to
Permitted Liens that are permitted pursuant to the terms of this Agreement to
have superiority to Bank’s Lien under this Agreement), or enter into any
agreement, document, instrument or other arrangement (except with or in favor of
Bank) with any Person which directly or indirectly prohibits or has the effect
of prohibiting Borrower or any Subsidiary from assigning, mortgaging, pledging,
granting a security interest in or upon, or encumbering any of Borrower’s or any
Subsidiary’s Intellectual Property, except (a) as is otherwise permitted in
Section 7.1 hereof and the definition of Permitted Liens herein, (b) customary
restrictions on assignment, transfer and encumbrances in license agreements
under which Borrower or a Subsidiary is the licensee, and (c) covenants with
such restrictions in contracts of sale or merger or acquisition agreements,
provided that in the case of this clause (c), (i) such covenants do not prohibit
or restrict Borrower from granting a security interest in Borrower’s or any
Subsidiary’s Intellectual Property in favor of Bank and (ii) the counter-parties
to such covenants are not permitted to receive or obtain a security interest in
Borrower’s Intellectual Property or any Collateral.

7.6Maintenance of Collateral Accounts.  Maintain any Collateral Account except
pursuant to the terms of Section 6.8(b) hereof.

7.7Distributions; Investments.  (a) Pay any dividends or make any distribution
or payment or redeem, retire or purchase any capital stock provided that
Borrower may (i) convert any of its convertible securities

15

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

into other securities pursuant to the terms of such convertible securities, (ii)
pay dividends solely in common stock, (iii) make cash payments in lieu of
fractional shares of capital stock arising out of stock dividends, splits or
combinations or Permitted Acquisitions in an aggregate amount not to exceed
Twenty-Five Thousand Dollars ($25,000.00) in any twelve (12) month period, (iv)
repurchase the stock of former employees, directors or consultants pursuant to
stock repurchase agreements so long as an Event of Default does not exist at the
time of any such repurchase and would not exist after giving effect to any such
repurchase, provided that the aggregate amount of all such repurchases does not
exceed One Hundred Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000.00) per fiscal year, and (v)
purchase capital stock in connection with the exercise of stock options,
warrants or other equity awards by way of cashless exercise or in connection
with the satisfaction of withholding tax obligations; or (b) directly or
indirectly make any Investment (including, without limitation, by the formation
of any Subsidiary) other than Permitted Investments, or permit any of its
Subsidiaries to do so.

7.8Transactions with Affiliates.  Directly or indirectly enter into or permit to
exist any material transaction with any Affiliate of Borrower, except for (i)
transactions that are in the ordinary course of Borrower’s business, upon fair
and reasonable terms that are no less favorable to Borrower than would be
obtained in an arm’s length transaction with a non-affiliated Person, (ii)
reasonable and customary fees paid to members of the Board of Borrower and its
Subsidiaries, (iii) compensation arrangements and benefit plans for officers and
other employees of Borrower and its Subsidiaries entered into or maintained in
the ordinary course of business, (iv) bridge financings and equity financings
with Borrower’s investors that are otherwise permitted by Section 7.2 and
constitutes Subordinated Debt, (v) transactions of the type described in and
permitted by Section 7.7, and (vi) transactions of the type described in and
permitted by subsection (f) Permitted Investments and subsection (h) of
Permitted Indebtedness.

7.9Subordinated Debt.  (a) Make or permit any payment on any Subordinated Debt,
except under the terms of the subordination, intercreditor, or other similar
agreement to which such Subordinated Debt is subject, or (b) amend any provision
in any document relating to the Subordinated Debt which would increase the
amount thereof, provide for earlier or greater principal, interest, or other
payments thereon, or adversely affect the subordination thereof to Obligations
owed to Bank.

7.10Compliance.  Become an “investment company” or a company controlled by an
“investment company”, under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or
undertake as one of its important activities extending credit to purchase or
carry margin stock (as defined in Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System), or use the proceeds of any Credit Extension for that
purpose; fail to meet the minimum funding requirements of ERISA, permit a
Reportable Event or Prohibited Transaction, as defined in ERISA, to occur; fail
to comply with the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act or violate any other law or
regulation, if the violation could reasonably be expected to have a material
adverse effect on Borrower’s business, or permit any of its Subsidiaries to do
so; withdraw or permit any Subsidiary to withdraw from participation in, permit
partial or complete termination of, or permit the occurrence of any other event
with respect to, any present pension, profit sharing and deferred compensation
plan which could reasonably be expected to result in any liability of Borrower,
including any liability to the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or its
successors or any other governmental agency.

8EVENTS OF DEFAULT

Any one of the following shall constitute an event of default (an “Event of
Default”) under this Agreement:

8.1Payment Default.  Borrower fails to (a) make any payment of principal or
interest on any Credit Extension when due, or (b) pay any other Obligations
within three (3) Business Days after such Obligations are due and payable (which
three (3) Business Day cure period shall not apply to payments due on the
Revolving Line Maturity Date).  During the cure period, the failure to make or
pay any payment specified under clause (b) hereunder is not an Event of Default
(but no Credit Extension will be made during the cure period);

8.2Covenant Default.  

(a) Borrower fails or neglects to perform any obligation in Sections 6.2, 6.3,
6.4, 6.5, 6.6, 6.7, 6.8, 6.9, 6.10, 6.11, 6.12 or 6.15 or violates any covenant
in Section 7; or

16

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(b) Borrower fails or neglects to perform, keep, or observe any other term,
provision, condition, covenant or agreement contained in this Agreement or any
Loan Documents, and as to any default (other than those specified in this
Section 8) under such other term, provision, condition, covenant or agreement
that can be cured, has failed to cure the default within ten (10) days after the
occurrence thereof; provided, however, that if the default cannot by its nature
be cured within the ten (10) day period or cannot after diligent attempts by
Borrower be cured within such ten (10) day period, and such default is likely to
be cured within a reasonable time, then Borrower shall have an additional period
(which shall not in any case exceed thirty (30) days) to attempt to cure such
default, and within such reasonable time period the failure to cure the default
shall not be deemed an Event of Default (but no Credit Extensions shall be made
during such cure period).  Cure periods provided under this section shall not
apply, among other things, to financial covenants or any other covenants set
forth in clause (a) above;

8.3Material Adverse Change.  A Material Adverse Change occurs;

8.4Attachment; Levy; Restraint on Business.  

(a)(i) The service of process seeking to attach, by trustee or similar process,
any funds of Borrower or of any entity under the control of Borrower (including
a Subsidiary), or (ii) a notice of lien or levy is filed against any of
Borrower’s assets by any Governmental Authority, and the same under subclauses
(i) and (ii) hereof are not, within ten (10) days after the occurrence thereof,
discharged or stayed (whether through the posting of a bond or otherwise);
provided, however, no Credit Extensions shall be made during any ten (10) day
cure period; or

(b) (i) any material portion of Borrower’s assets is attached, seized, levied
on, or comes into possession of a trustee or receiver, or (ii) any court order
enjoins, restrains, or prevents Borrower from conducting all or any material
part of its business;

8.5Insolvency.  (a) Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries is unable to pay its
debts (including trade debts) as they become due or otherwise becomes insolvent;
(b) Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries begins an Insolvency Proceeding; or (c)
an Insolvency Proceeding is begun against Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries
and is not dismissed or stayed within forty-five (45) days (but no Credit
Extensions shall be made while any of the conditions described in clause (a)
exist and/or until any Insolvency Proceeding is dismissed);

8.6Other Agreements.  There is, under any agreement to which Borrower or any
Guarantor is a party with a third party or parties, (a) any default resulting in
a right by such third party or parties, whether or not exercised, to accelerate
the maturity of any Indebtedness in an amount individually or in the aggregate
in excess of Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00); or (b) any breach or
default by Borrower or Guarantor, the result of which could have a material
adverse effect on Borrower’s or any Guarantor’s business; provided, however,
that the Event of Default under this Section 8.6 caused by the occurrence of a
breach or default under such other agreement shall be cured or waived for
purposes of this Agreement upon Bank receiving written notice from the party
asserting such breach or default of such cure or waiver of the breach or default
under such other agreement, if at the time of such cure or waiver under such
other agreement (x) Bank has not declared an Event of Default under this
Agreement and/or exercised any rights with respect thereto; (y) any such cure or
waiver does not result in an Event of Default under any other provision of this
Agreement or any Loan Document; and (z) in connection with any such cure or
waiver under such other agreement, the terms of any agreement with such third
party are not modified or amended in any manner which could in the good faith
business judgment of Bank be materially less advantageous to Borrower or any
Guarantor;

8.7Judgments; Penalties.  One or more fines, penalties or final judgments,
orders or decrees for the payment of money in an amount, individually or in the
aggregate, of at least Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) (not covered
by independent third-party insurance as to which liability has been accepted by
such insurance carrier) shall be rendered against Borrower by any Governmental
Authority, and the same are not, within ten (10) days after the entry,
assessment or issuance thereof, discharged, satisfied, or paid, or after
execution thereof, stayed or bonded pending appeal, or such judgments are not
discharged prior to the expiration of any such stay (provided that no Credit
Extensions will be made prior to the satisfaction, payment, discharge, stay, or
bonding of such fine, penalty, judgment, order or decree);

17

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8.8Misrepresentations.  Borrower or any Person acting for Borrower makes any
representation, warranty, or other statement now or later in this Agreement, any
Loan Document or in any writing delivered to Bank or to induce Bank to enter
this Agreement or any Loan Document, and such representation, warranty, or other
statement is incorrect in any material respect when made (it being recognized by
Bank that the projections and forecasts provided by Borrower in good faith and
based upon reasonable assumptions are not viewed as facts and that actual
results during the period or periods covered by such projections and forecasts
may differ from the projected or forecasted results);

8.9Subordinated Debt.  Any document, instrument, or agreement evidencing any
Subordinated Debt shall for any reason be revoked or invalidated or otherwise
cease to be in full force and effect (provided that any revocation,
cancellation, invalidation, or termination of any such document, instrument or
agreement that (i) is consented to in writing by Bank in its sole and absolute
discretion or (ii) results from Borrower’s payment in full of the Subordinated
Debt if permitted under any subordination agreement, shall not constitute an
Event of Default under this Section 8.9), any Person shall be in breach thereof
or contest in any manner the validity or enforceability thereof or deny that it
has any further liability or obligation thereunder, or the Obligations shall for
any reason be subordinated or shall not have the priority contemplated by this
Agreement or any applicable subordination or intercreditor agreement; or

8.10Governmental Approvals.  Any Governmental Approval shall have been (a)
revoked, rescinded, suspended, modified in an adverse manner or not renewed in
the ordinary course for a full term or (b) subject to any decision by a
Governmental Authority that designates a hearing with respect to any
applications for renewal of any of such Governmental Approval or that could
result in the Governmental Authority taking any of the actions described in
clause (a) above, and such decision or such revocation, rescission, suspension,
modification or non-renewal (i) causes, or could reasonably be expected to
cause, a Material Adverse Change, or (ii) materially adversely affects the legal
qualifications of Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to hold such Governmental
Approval in any applicable jurisdiction and such revocation, rescission,
suspension, modification or non-renewal could reasonably be expected to
materially adversely affect the status of or legal qualifications of Borrower or
any of its Subsidiaries to hold any Governmental Approval in any other
jurisdiction.

8.11Mezzanine Loan Agreement. The occurrence of an Event of Default (as defined
in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement) under the Mezzanine Loan Agreement.

9BANK’S RIGHTS AND REMEDIES

9.1Rights and Remedies.  Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an
Event of Default, Bank may, without notice or demand, do any or all of the
following:

(a)declare all Obligations immediately due and payable (but if an Event of
Default described in Section 8.5 occurs all Obligations are immediately due and
payable without any action by Bank);

(b)stop advancing money or extending credit for Borrower’s benefit under this
Agreement or under any other agreement between Borrower and Bank;

(c)demand that Borrower (i) deposit cash with Bank in an amount equal to at
least (A) one hundred five percent (105.0%) of the Dollar Equivalent of the
aggregate face amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in Dollars remaining
undrawn, and (B) one hundred ten percent (110.0%) of the Dollar Equivalent of
the aggregate face amount of all Letters of Credit denominated in a Foreign
Currency remaining undrawn (plus, in each case, all interest, fees, and costs
due or to become due in connection therewith (as estimated by Bank in its good
faith business judgment)), to secure all of the Obligations relating to such
Letters of Credit, as collateral security for the repayment of any future
drawings under such Letters of Credit, and Borrower shall forthwith deposit and
pay such amounts, and (ii) pay in advance all letter of credit fees scheduled to
be paid or payable over the remaining term of any Letters of Credit;

(d)terminate any FX Contracts;

18

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(e)verify the amount of, demand payment of and performance under, and collect
any Accounts and General Intangibles, settle or adjust disputes and claims
directly with Account Debtors for amounts on terms and in any order that Bank
considers advisable, and notify any Person owing Borrower money of Bank’s
security interest in such funds.  Borrower shall collect all payments in trust
for Bank and, if requested by Bank, immediately deliver the payments to Bank in
the form received from the Account Debtor, with proper endorsements for deposit;

(f)make any payments and do any acts it considers necessary or reasonable to
protect the Collateral and/or its security interest in the Collateral.  Borrower
shall assemble the Collateral if Bank requests and make it available as Bank
designates.  Bank may enter premises where the Collateral is located, take and
maintain possession of any part of the Collateral, and pay, purchase, contest,
or compromise any Lien which appears to be prior or superior to its security
interest and pay all expenses incurred. Borrower grants Bank a license to enter
and occupy any of its premises, without charge, to exercise any of Bank’s rights
or remedies;

(g)apply to the Obligations any (i) balances and deposits of Borrower it holds,
or (ii) amount held by Bank owing to or for the credit or the account of
Borrower;

(h)ship, reclaim, recover, store, finish, maintain, repair, prepare for sale,
advertise for sale, and sell the Collateral.  Bank is hereby granted a
non-exclusive, royalty-free license or other right to use, without charge,
Borrower’s labels, Patents, Copyrights, mask works, rights of use of any name,
trade secrets, trade names, Trademarks, and advertising matter, or any similar
property as it pertains to the Collateral, in completing production of,
advertising for sale, and selling any Collateral and, in connection with Bank’s
exercise of its rights under this Section 9.1, Borrower’s rights under all
licenses and all franchise agreements inure to Bank’s benefit;

(i)place a “hold” on any account maintained with Bank and/or deliver a notice of
exclusive control, any entitlement order, or other directions or instructions
pursuant to any Control Agreement or similar agreements providing control of any
Collateral;

(j)demand and receive possession of Borrower’s Books; and

(k)exercise all rights and remedies available to Bank under the Loan Documents
or at law or equity, including all remedies provided under the Code (including
disposal of the Collateral pursuant to the terms thereof).

9.2Power of Attorney.  Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints Bank as its lawful
attorney-in-fact, exercisable following the occurrence and during the
continuance of an Event of Default, to:  (a) endorse Borrower’s name on any
checks, payment instruments, or other forms of payment or security; (b) sign
Borrower’s name on any invoice or bill of lading for any Account or drafts
against Account Debtors; (c) demand, collect, sue, and give releases to any
Account Debtor for monies due, settle and adjust disputes and claims about the
Accounts directly with Account Debtors, and compromise, prosecute, or defend any
action, claim, case, or proceeding about any Collateral (including filing a
claim or voting a claim in any bankruptcy case in Bank’s or Borrower’s name, as
Bank chooses); (d) make, settle, and adjust all claims under Borrower’s
insurance policies; (e) pay, contest or settle any Lien, charge, encumbrance,
security interest, or other claim in or to the Collateral, or any judgment based
thereon, or otherwise take any action to terminate or discharge the same; and
(f) transfer the Collateral into the name of Bank or a third party as the Code
permits.  Borrower hereby appoints Bank as its lawful attorney-in-fact to sign
Borrower’s name on any documents necessary to perfect or continue the perfection
of Bank’s security interest in the Collateral regardless of whether an Event of
Default has occurred until all Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity
obligations or other obligations which, by their terms, survive the termination
of this Agreement) have been satisfied in full and the Loan Documents have been
terminated.  Bank’s foregoing appointment as Borrower’s attorney in fact, and
all of Bank’s rights and powers, coupled with an interest, are irrevocable until
all Obligations have been fully repaid and performed and the Loan Documents have
been terminated.

9.3Protective Payments.  If Borrower fails to obtain the insurance called for by
Section 6.7 or fails to pay any premium thereon or fails to pay any other amount
which Borrower is obligated to pay under this Agreement or any other Loan
Document or which may be required to preserve the Collateral, Bank may obtain
such insurance or make such payment, and all amounts so paid by Bank are Bank
Expenses and immediately due and

19

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

payable, bearing interest at the then highest rate applicable to the
Obligations, and secured by the Collateral.  Bank will make reasonable efforts
to provide Borrower with notice of Bank obtaining such insurance at the time it
is obtained or within a reasonable time thereafter.  No payments by Bank are
deemed an agreement to make similar payments in the future or Bank’s waiver of
any Event of Default.

9.4Application of Payments and Proceeds.  If an Event of Default has occurred
and is continuing (or at any time on the terms set forth in Section 6.3(c),
regardless of whether an Event of Default exists), Bank shall have the right to
apply in any order any funds in its possession, whether from Borrower account
balances, payments, proceeds realized as the result of any collection of
Accounts or other disposition of the Collateral, or otherwise, to the
Obligations.  Bank shall pay any surplus to Borrower by credit to the Designated
Deposit Account or to other Persons legally entitled thereto; Borrower shall
remain liable to Bank for any deficiency.  If Bank, directly or indirectly,
enters into a deferred payment or other credit transaction with any purchaser at
any sale of Collateral, Bank shall have the option, exercisable at any time, of
either reducing the Obligations by the principal amount of the purchase price or
deferring the reduction of the Obligations until the actual receipt by Bank of
cash therefor.

9.5Bank’s Liability for Collateral.  So long as Bank complies with reasonable
banking practices regarding the safekeeping of the Collateral in the possession
or under the control of Bank, Bank shall not be liable or responsible for: (a)
the safekeeping of the Collateral; (b) any loss or damage to the Collateral; (c)
any diminution in the value of the Collateral; or (d) any act or default of any
carrier, warehouseman, bailee, or other Person.  Borrower bears all risk of
loss, damage or destruction of the Collateral, except to the extent caused by
the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Bank.

9.6No Waiver; Remedies Cumulative.  Bank’s failure, at any time or times, to
require strict performance by Borrower of any provision of this Agreement or any
other Loan Document shall not waive, affect, or diminish any right of Bank
thereafter to demand strict performance and compliance herewith or
therewith.  No waiver hereunder shall be effective unless signed by the party
granting the waiver and then is only effective for the specific instance and
purpose for which it is given.  Bank’s rights and remedies under this Agreement
and the other Loan Documents are cumulative.  Bank has all rights and remedies
provided under the Code, by law, or in equity.  Bank’s exercise of one right or
remedy is not an election and shall not preclude Bank from exercising any other
remedy under this Agreement or other remedy available at law or in equity, and
Bank’s waiver of any Event of Default is not a continuing waiver.  Bank’s delay
in exercising any remedy is not a waiver, election, or acquiescence.  

9.7Demand Waiver.  To the extent permitted by applicable law, Borrower waives
demand, notice of default or dishonor, notice of payment and nonpayment, notice
of any default, nonpayment at maturity, release, compromise, settlement,
extension, or renewal of accounts, documents, instruments, chattel paper, and
guarantees held by Bank on which Borrower is liable.

10NOTICES

All notices, consents, requests, approvals, demands, or other communication by
any party to this Agreement or any other Loan Document must be in writing and
shall be deemed to have been validly served, given, or delivered: (a) upon the
earlier of actual receipt and three (3) Business Days after deposit in the U.S.
mail, first class, registered or certified mail return receipt requested, with
proper postage prepaid; (b) upon transmission, when sent by electronic mail or
facsimile transmission; (c) one (1) Business Day after deposit with a reputable
overnight courier with all charges prepaid; or (d) when delivered, if
hand-delivered by messenger, all of which shall be addressed to the party to be
notified and sent to the address, facsimile number, or email address indicated
below.  Bank or Borrower may change its mailing or electronic mail address or
facsimile number by giving the other party written notice thereof in accordance
with the terms of this Section 10.

If to Borrower:

Verrica Pharmaceuticals Inc.
10 North High Street, Suite 200

West Chester, Pennsylvania 19380  

Attn:  Brian Davis

Email:   bdavis@verrica.com

 



20

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

with a copy to:

 

 

Cooley LLP

101 California Street, 5th Floor

San Francisco, California 94111-5800

Attention: Maricel Mojares-Moore

Fax: (415) 693-2222

Email: mmoore@cooley.com

 

If to Bank:

Silicon Valley Bank 275 Grove Street, Suite 2-200

Newton, Massachusetts 02466Attn:Michael McMahonEmail:  Mmcmahon@svb.com

Newton, Massachusetts 02466Attn:Michael McMahonEmail:  Mmcmahon@svb.com

with a copy to:Morrison & Foerster LLP
200 Clarendon Street, Floor 20
Boston, Massachusetts  02116
Attn:David A. Ephraim, Esquire
Email:DEphraim@mofo.com

 

11CHOICE OF LAW, VENUE,  AND JURY TRIAL WAIVER

Except as otherwise expressly provided in any of the Loan Documents, California
law governs the Loan Documents without regard to principles of conflicts of
law.  Borrower and Bank each submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the State
and Federal courts in Santa Clara County, California; provided, however, that
nothing in this Agreement shall be deemed to operate to preclude Bank from
bringing suit or taking other legal action in any other jurisdiction to realize
on the Collateral or any other security for the Obligations, or to enforce a
judgment or other court order in favor of Bank.  Borrower expressly submits and
consents in advance to such jurisdiction in any action or suit commenced in any
such court, and Borrower hereby waives any objection that it may have based upon
lack of personal jurisdiction, improper venue, or forum non conveniens and
hereby consents to the granting of such legal or equitable relief as is deemed
appropriate by such court.  Borrower hereby waives personal service of the
summons, complaints, and other process issued in such action or suit and agrees
that service of such summons, complaints, and other process may be made by
registered or certified mail addressed to Borrower at the address set forth in,
or subsequently provided by Borrower in accordance with, Section 10 of this
Agreement and that service so made shall be deemed completed upon the earlier to
occur of Borrower’s actual receipt thereof or three (3) days after deposit in
the U.S. mails, proper postage prepaid.

TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, BORROWER AND BANK EACH WAIVE
THEIR RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR
BASED UPON THIS AGREEMENT, THE LOAN DOCUMENTS OR ANY CONTEMPLATED TRANSACTION,
INCLUDING CONTRACT, TORT, BREACH OF DUTY AND ALL OTHER CLAIMS. THIS WAIVER IS A
MATERIAL INDUCEMENT FOR BOTH PARTIES TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT.  EACH PARTY
HAS REVIEWED THIS WAIVER WITH ITS COUNSEL.

This Section 11 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

12GENERAL PROVISIONS

12.1Termination Prior to Maturity Date; Survival. All covenants, representations
and warranties made in this Agreement shall continue in full force until this
Agreement has terminated pursuant to its terms and all Obligations (other than
inchoate indemnity obligations or other obligations which, by their terms,
survive the termination of this Agreement) have been satisfied.  So long as
Borrower has satisfied the Obligations (other than inchoate indemnity
obligations, and any other obligations which, by their terms, are to survive the
termination of this Agreement, and any Obligations under Bank Services
Agreements that are cash collateralized in accordance with Section 4.1 of this
Agreement), this Agreement may be terminated prior to the Revolving Line
Maturity Date

21

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

by Borrower, effective three (3) Business Days after written notice of
termination is given to Bank.  Those obligations that are expressly specified in
this Agreement as surviving this Agreement’s termination shall continue to
survive notwithstanding this Agreement’s termination.

12.2Successors and Assigns.  This Agreement binds and is for the benefit of the
successors and permitted assigns of each party.  Borrower may not assign this
Agreement or any rights or obligations under it without Bank’s prior written
consent (which may be granted or withheld in Bank’s discretion).  Bank has the
right, without the consent of or notice to Borrower, to sell, transfer, assign,
negotiate, or grant participation in all or any part of, or any interest in,
Bank’s obligations, rights, and benefits under this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents. Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the occurrence of an Event of
Default, Bank shall not assign any interest in the Loan Documents to any person
who is a direct competitor of Borrower.

12.3Indemnification. Borrower agrees to indemnify, defend and hold Bank and its
directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, or any other Person
affiliated with or representing Bank (each, an “Indemnified Person”) harmless
against:  (i) all obligations, demands, claims, and liabilities (collectively,
“Claims”) claimed or asserted by any other party in connection with the
transactions contemplated by the Loan Documents; and (ii) all losses or expenses
(including Bank Expenses) in any way suffered, incurred, or paid by such
Indemnified Person as a result of, following from, consequential to, or arising
from transactions between Bank and Borrower (including reasonable attorneys’
fees and expenses), except for Claims and/or losses directly caused by such
Indemnified Person’s gross negligence or willful misconduct.

This Section 12.3 shall survive until all statutes of limitation with respect to
the Claims, losses, and expenses for which indemnity is given shall have run.

12.4Time of Essence.  Time is of the essence for the performance of all
Obligations in this Agreement.

12.5Severability of Provisions.  Each provision of this Agreement is severable
from every other provision in determining the enforceability of any provision.

12.6Correction of Loan Documents.  Bank may correct patent errors and fill in
any blanks in the Loan Documents consistent with the agreement of the parties.

12.7Amendments in Writing; Waiver; Integration.  No purported amendment or
modification of any Loan Document, or waiver, discharge or termination of any
obligation under any Loan Document, shall be enforceable or admissible unless,
and only to the extent, expressly set forth in a writing signed by the party
against which enforcement or admission is sought.  Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, no oral promise or statement, nor any action,
inaction, delay, failure to require performance or course of conduct shall
operate as, or evidence, an amendment, supplement or waiver or have any other
effect on any Loan Document.  Any waiver granted shall be limited to the
specific circumstance expressly described in it, and shall not apply to any
subsequent or other circumstance, whether similar or dissimilar, or give rise
to, or evidence, any obligation or commitment to grant any further waiver.  The
Loan Documents represent the entire agreement about this subject matter and
supersede prior negotiations or agreements.  All prior agreements,
understandings, representations, warranties, and negotiations between the
parties about the subject matter of the Loan Documents merge into the Loan
Documents.

12.8Counterparts.  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts
and by different parties on separate counterparts, each of which, when executed
and delivered, is an original, and all taken together, constitute one Agreement.

12.9Confidentiality.  In handling any confidential information, Bank shall
exercise the same degree of care that it exercises for its own proprietary
information, but disclosure of information may be made: (a) to Bank’s
Subsidiaries or Affiliates (such Subsidiaries and Affiliates, together with
Bank, collectively, “Bank Entities”), provided that such Subsidiaries or
Affiliates shall agree to be bound by the confidentiality provisions or
agreements substantially the same as those set forth in this Section 12.9; (b)
to prospective transferees or purchasers of any interest in the Credit
Extensions (provided, however, that any prospective transferee or purchaser
shall have entered

22

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

into an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those in this
Section 12.9); (c) as required by law, regulation, subpoena, or other order; (d)
to Bank’s regulators or as otherwise required in connection with Bank’s
examination or audit; (e) as Bank considers appropriate in exercising remedies
under the Loan Documents; and (f) to third-party service providers of Bank so
long as such service providers have executed a confidentiality agreement with
Bank with terms no less restrictive than those contained herein.  Confidential
information does not include information that is either: (i) in the public
domain or in Bank’s possession when disclosed to Bank, or becomes part of the
public domain (other than as a result of its disclosure by Bank in violation of
this Agreement) after disclosure to Bank; or (ii) disclosed to Bank by a third
party, if Bank does not know that the third party is prohibited from disclosing
the information.

Bank Entities may use anonymous forms of confidential information for aggregate
datasets, for analyses or reporting, and for any other uses not expressly
prohibited in writing by Borrower.  The provisions of the immediately preceding
sentence shall survive the termination of this Agreement.

12.10Electronic Execution of Documents.  The words “execution,” “signed,”
“signature” and words of like import in any Loan Document shall be deemed to
include electronic signatures or the keeping of records in electronic form, each
of which shall be of the same legal effect, validity and enforceability as a
manually executed signature or the use of a paper-based recordkeeping systems,
as the case may be, to the extent and as provided for in any applicable law,
including, without limitation, any state law based on the Uniform Electronic
Transactions Act.

12.11Right of Setoff.   Borrower hereby grants to Bank a Lien and a right of
setoff as security for all Obligations to Bank, whether now existing or
hereafter arising upon and against all deposits, credits, collateral and
property, now or hereafter in the possession, custody, safekeeping or control of
Bank or any entity under the control of Bank (including a subsidiary of Bank) or
in transit to any of them.  At any time after the occurrence and during the
continuance of an Event of Default, without demand or notice, Bank may setoff
the same or any part thereof and apply the same to any liability or Obligation
of Borrower even though unmatured and regardless of the adequacy of any other
collateral securing the Obligations.  ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO REQUIRE BANK TO
EXERCISE ITS RIGHTS OR REMEDIES WITH RESPECT TO ANY OTHER COLLATERAL WHICH
SECURES THE OBLIGATIONS, PRIOR TO EXERCISING ITS RIGHT OF SETOFF WITH RESPECT TO
SUCH DEPOSITS, CREDITS OR OTHER PROPERTY OF BORROWER, ARE HEREBY KNOWINGLY,
VOLUNTARILY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVED.

12.12Captions.  The headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and
shall not affect the interpretation of this Agreement.

12.13Construction of Agreement.  The parties mutually acknowledge that they and
their attorneys have participated in the preparation and negotiation of this
Agreement.  In cases of uncertainty this Agreement shall be construed without
regard to which of the parties caused the uncertainty to exist.

12.14Relationship.  The relationship of the parties to this Agreement is
determined solely by the provisions of this Agreement.  The parties do not
intend to create any agency, partnership, joint venture, trust, fiduciary or
other relationship with duties or incidents different from those of parties to
an arm’s-length contract.

12.15Third Parties.  Nothing in this Agreement, whether express or implied, is
intended to: (a) confer any benefits, rights or remedies under or by reason of
this Agreement on any persons other than the express parties to it and their
respective permitted successors and assigns; (b) relieve or discharge the
obligation or liability of any person not an express party to this Agreement; or
(c) give any person not an express party to this Agreement any right of
subrogation or action against any party to this Agreement.

13DEFINITIONS

13.1Definitions.  As used in the Loan Documents, the word “shall” is mandatory,
the word “may” is permissive, the word “or” is not exclusive, the words
“includes” and “including” are not limiting, the singular includes the plural,
and numbers denoting amounts that are set off in brackets are negative.  As used
in this Agreement, the following capitalized terms have the following meanings:

23

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Account” is, as to any Person, any “account” of such Person as “account” is
defined in the Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made,
and includes, without limitation, all accounts receivable and other sums owing
to such Person.

“Account Debtor” is any “account debtor” as defined in the Code with such
additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“Acquisition” is (a) the purchase or other acquisition by Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries of all or substantially all of the assets of any other Person, or
(b) the purchase or other acquisition (whether by means of merger,
consolidation, or otherwise) by Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of all or
substantially all of the stock or other equity interest of any other Person.

“Administrator” is an individual that is named:

(a)

as an “Administrator” in the “SVB Online Services” form completed by Borrower
with the authority to determine who will be authorized to use SVB Online
Services (as defined in Bank’s Online Banking Agreement as in effect from time
to time) on behalf of Borrower; and

(b)

as an Authorized Signer of Borrower in an approval by the Board.

“Advance” or “Advances” means a revolving credit loan (or revolving credit
loans) under the Revolving Line.

“Affiliate” is, with respect to any Person, each other Person that owns or
controls directly or indirectly the Person, any Person that controls or is
controlled by or is under common control with the Person, and each of that
Person’s senior executive officers, directors, partners and, for any Person that
is a limited liability company, that Person’s managers and members.  For
purposes of the definition of Eligible Accounts, Affiliate shall include a
Specified Affiliate.

“Agreement” is defined in the preamble hereof.

“Anniversary Fee” and “Anniversary Fees” is defined in Section 2.5(b).

“Authorized Signer” is any individual listed in Borrower’s Borrowing Resolution
who is authorized to execute the Loan Documents, including making (and executing
if applicable) any Credit Extension request, on behalf of Borrower.

“Availability Amount” is (a) the lesser of (i) the Revolving Line or (ii) the
amount available under the Borrowing Base minus (b) the outstanding principal
balance of any Advances.

“Bank” is defined in the preamble hereof.

“Bank Entities” is defined in Section 12.9.

“Bank Expenses” are all audit fees and expenses, costs, and expenses (including
reasonable attorneys’ fees and expenses) for preparing, amending, negotiating,
administering, defending and enforcing the Loan Documents (including, without
limitation, those incurred in connection with appeals or Insolvency Proceedings)
or otherwise incurred with respect to Borrower or any Guarantor.

“Bank Services”  are any products, credit services, and/or financial
accommodations previously, now, or hereafter provided to Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries by Bank or any Bank Affiliate, including, without limitation, any
letters of credit, cash management services (including, without limitation,
merchant services, direct deposit of payroll, business credit cards, and check
cashing services), interest rate swap arrangements, and foreign exchange
services as any such products or services may be identified in Bank’s various
agreements related thereto (each, a “Bank Services Agreement”).

24

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Bank Services Agreement” is defined in the definition of Bank Services.

“Board” is Borrower’s board of directors.

“Borrower” is defined in the preamble hereof.

“Borrower’s Books” are all Borrower’s books and records including ledgers,
federal and state tax returns, records regarding Borrower’s assets or
liabilities, the Collateral, business operations or financial condition, and all
computer programs or storage or any equipment containing such information.

“Borrowing Base” is eighty-five percent (85.0)% of Eligible Accounts, as
determined by Bank from Borrower’s most recent Borrowing Base Report (and as may
subsequently be updated by Bank based upon information received by Bank
including, without limitation, Accounts that are paid and/or billed following
the date of the Borrowing Base Report); provided, however, that Bank has the
right, after consultation with and notice to Borrower, to decrease the foregoing
percentages in its good faith business judgment to mitigate the impact of
events, conditions, contingencies, or risks which may adversely affect the
Collateral or its value.

“Borrowing Base Report” is that certain report of the value of certain
Collateral in the form specified by Bank to Borrower from time to time.

“Borrowing Resolutions” are, with respect to any Person, those resolutions
adopted by such Person’s board of directors (and, if required under the terms of
such Person’s Operating Documents, stockholders) and delivered by such Person to
Bank approving the Loan Documents to which such Person is a party and the
transactions contemplated thereby, together with a certificate executed by its
secretary on behalf of such Person certifying (a) such Person has the authority
to execute, deliver, and perform its obligations under each of the Loan
Documents to which it is a party, (b) that set forth as a part of or attached as
an exhibit to such certificate is a true, correct, and complete copy of the
resolutions then in full force and effect authorizing and ratifying the
execution, delivery, and performance by such Person of the Loan Documents to
which it is a party, (c) the name(s) of the Person(s) authorized to execute the
Loan Documents, including making (and executing if applicable) any Credit
Extension request, on behalf of such Person, together with a sample of the true
signature(s) of such Person(s), and (d) that Bank may conclusively rely on such
certificate unless and until such Person shall have delivered to Bank a further
certificate canceling or amending such prior certificate.

“Business Day” is any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or a day on which Bank
is closed.

“Cash Collateral Account” is defined in Section 6.3(c).

“Cash Equivalents” means (a) marketable direct obligations issued or
unconditionally guaranteed by the United States or any agency or any State
thereof having maturities of not more than one (1) year from the date of
acquisition; (b) commercial paper maturing no more than one (1) year after its
creation and having the highest rating from either Standard & Poor’s Ratings
Group or Moody’s Investors Service, Inc.; (c) Bank’s certificates of deposit
issued maturing no more than one (1) year after issue; and (d) money market
funds at least ninety-five percent (95.0%) of the assets of which constitute
Cash Equivalents of the kinds described in clauses (a) through (c) of this
definition.

“Change in Control” means (a) at any time, any “person” or “group” (as such
terms are used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) shall become, or
obtain rights (whether by means of warrants, options or otherwise) to become,
the “beneficial owner” (as defined in Rules 13(d)-3 and 13(d)-5 under the
Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of forty-nine percent (49.0%) or more of
the ordinary voting power for the election of directors of Borrower (determined
on a fully diluted basis) other than by the sale of Borrower’s equity securities
in a public offering or to venture capital or private equity investors so long
as Borrower identifies to Bank the venture capital or private equity investors
at least seven (7) Business Days prior to the closing of the transaction and
provides to Bank a description of the material terms of the transaction; (b)
during any period of twelve (12) consecutive months, a majority of the members
of the board of directors or other equivalent governing body of Borrower cease
to be composed of individuals (i) who were members of that board or equivalent
governing body on the first day of such period, (ii) whose election or
nomination to that board or equivalent governing body was approved by
individuals referred to in

25

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

clause (i) above constituting at the time of such election or nomination at
least a majority of that board or equivalent governing body or (iii) whose
election or nomination to that board or other equivalent governing body was
approved by individuals referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) above constituting
at the time of such election or nomination at least a majority of that board or
equivalent governing body; or (c) at any time, Borrower shall cease to own and
control, of record and beneficially, directly or indirectly, one hundred percent
(100.0%) of each class of outstanding capital stock of each Subsidiary of
Borrower free and clear of all Liens (except Liens created by this Agreement).

“Claims” is defined in Section 12.3.

“Code” is the Uniform Commercial Code, as the same may, from time to time, be
enacted and in effect in the State of California; provided, that, to the extent
that the Code is used to define any term herein or in any Loan Document and such
term is defined differently in different Articles or Divisions of the Code, the
definition of such term contained in Article or Division 9 shall govern;
provided further, that in the event that, by reason of mandatory provisions of
law, any or all of the attachment, perfection, or priority of, or remedies with
respect to, Bank’s Lien on any Collateral is governed by the Uniform Commercial
Code in effect in a jurisdiction other than the State of California, the term
“Code” shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted and in effect in such
other jurisdiction solely for purposes of the provisions thereof relating to
such attachment, perfection, priority, or remedies and for purposes of
definitions relating to such provisions.

“Collateral” is any and all properties, rights and assets of Borrower described
on Exhibit A.

“Collateral Account” is any Deposit Account, Securities Account, or Commodity
Account.

“Commodity Account” is any “commodity account” as defined in the Code with such
additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“Compliance Certificate” is that certain certificate in the form attached hereto
as Exhibit B.

“Contingent Obligation” is, for any Person, any direct or indirect liability,
contingent or not, of that Person for (a) any indebtedness, lease, dividend,
letter of credit or other obligation of another such as an obligation, in each
case, directly or indirectly guaranteed, endorsed, co made, discounted or sold
with recourse by that Person, or for which that Person is directly or indirectly
liable; (b) any obligations for undrawn letters of credit for the account of
that Person; and (c) all obligations from any interest rate, currency or
commodity swap agreement, interest rate cap or collar agreement, or other
agreement or arrangement designated to protect a Person against fluctuation in
interest rates, currency exchange rates or commodity prices; but “Contingent
Obligation” does not include endorsements in the ordinary course of
business.  The amount of a Contingent Obligation is the stated or determined
amount of the primary obligation for which the Contingent Obligation is made or,
if not determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability for it
determined by the Person in good faith; but the amount may not exceed the
maximum of the obligations under any guarantee or other support arrangement.

“Control Agreement” is any control agreement entered into among the depository
institution at which Borrower maintains a Deposit Account or the securities
intermediary or commodity intermediary at which Borrower maintains a Securities
Account or a Commodity Account, Borrower, and Bank pursuant to which Bank
obtains control (within the meaning of the Code) over such Deposit Account,
Securities Account, or Commodity Account.

“Copyrights” are any and all copyright rights, copyright applications, copyright
registrations and like protections in each work of authorship and derivative
work thereof, whether published or unpublished and whether or not the same also
constitutes a trade secret.

“Credit Extension” is any Advance, any Overadvance, or any other extension of
credit by Bank for Borrower’s benefit.

“Currency” is coined money and such other banknotes or other paper money as are
authorized by law and circulate as a medium of exchange.

26

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Default Rate” is defined in Section 2.4(b).

“Deferred Revenue” is all amounts received or invoiced in advance of performance
under contracts and not yet recognized as revenue.

“Deposit Account” is any “deposit account” as defined in the Code with such
additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“Designated Deposit Account” is the account number ending 564 (last three
digits) maintained by Borrower with Bank (provided, however, if no such account
number is included, then the Designated Deposit Account shall be any deposit
account of Borrower maintained with Bank as chosen by Bank).

“Division” means, in reference to any Person which is an entity, the division of
such Person into two (2) or more separate Persons, with the dividing Person
either continuing or terminating its existence as part of such division,
including, without limitation, as contemplated under Section 18-217 of the
Delaware Limited Liability Company Act for limited liability companies formed
under Delaware law, or any analogous action taken pursuant to any other
applicable law with respect to any corporation, limited liability company,
partnership or other entity.

“Dollars,” “dollars” or use of the sign “$” means only lawful money of the
United States and not any other currency, regardless of whether that currency
uses the “$” sign to denote its currency or may be readily converted into lawful
money of the United States.

“Dollar Equivalent” is, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated
in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in a
Foreign Currency, the equivalent amount therefor in Dollars as determined by
Bank at such time on the basis of the then-prevailing rate of exchange in San
Francisco, California, for sales of the Foreign Currency for transfer to the
country issuing such Foreign Currency.

“Effective Date” is defined in the preamble hereof.

“Eligible Accounts” means Accounts owing to Borrower which arise in the ordinary
course of Borrower’s business that meet all Borrower’s representations and
warranties in Section 5.3, that have been, at the option of Bank, confirmed in
accordance with Section 6.3(f) of this Agreement, and are due and owing from
Account Debtors deemed creditworthy by Bank in its good faith business
judgment.  Bank reserves the right, after consultation with and notice to
Borrower, at any time after the Effective Date to adjust any of the criteria set
forth below and to establish new criteria in its good faith business
judgment.  Unless Bank otherwise agrees in writing, Eligible Accounts shall not
include:

(a)Accounts (i) for which the Account Debtor is Borrower’s Affiliate, officer,
employee, investor, or agent, or (ii) that are intercompany Accounts;

(b)Accounts that the Account Debtor has not paid within ninety (90) days of
invoice date regardless of invoice payment period terms;

(c)Accounts with credit balances over ninety (90) days from invoice date;

(d)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor if fifty percent (50%) or more of the
Accounts owing from such Account Debtor have not been paid within ninety (90)
days of invoice date;

(e)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor (i) which does not have its principal
place of business in the United States or (ii) whose billing address (as set
forth in the applicable invoice for such Account) is not in the United States,
unless in the case of both (i) and (ii), such Accounts are otherwise approved by
Bank in writing;

(f)Accounts billed from and/or payable to Borrower outside of the United States
(sometimes called foreign invoiced accounts);

27

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(g)Accounts in which Bank does not have a first priority, perfected security
interest under all applicable laws;

(h)Accounts billed and/or payable in a Currency other than Dollars;

(i)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor to the extent that Borrower is indebted
or obligated in any manner to the Account Debtor (as creditor, lessor, supplier
or otherwise - sometimes called “contra” accounts, accounts payable, customer
deposits or credit accounts);

(j)Accounts with or in respect of accruals for marketing allowances, incentive
rebates, price protection, cooperative advertising and other similar marketing
credits, unless otherwise approved by Bank in writing;

(k)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor which is a United States government
entity or any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof unless Borrower has
assigned its payment rights to Bank and the assignment has been acknowledged
under the Federal Assignment of Claims Act of 1940, as amended;

(l)Accounts with customer deposits and/or with respect to which Borrower has
received an upfront payment, to the extent of such customer deposit and/or
upfront payment;

(m)Accounts for demonstration or promotional equipment, or in which goods are
consigned, or sold on a “sale guaranteed”, “sale or return”, “sale on approval”,
or other terms if Account Debtor’s payment may be conditional;

(n)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor where goods or services have not yet
been rendered to the Account Debtor (sometimes called memo billings or
pre-billings);

(o)Accounts subject to contractual arrangements between Borrower and an Account
Debtor where payments shall be scheduled or due according to completion or
fulfillment requirements (sometimes called contracts accounts receivable,
progress billings, milestone billings, or fulfillment contracts);

(p)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor the amount of which may be subject to
withholding based on the Account Debtor’s satisfaction of Borrower’s complete
performance (but only to the extent of the amount withheld; sometimes called
retainage billings);

(q)Accounts subject to trust provisions, subrogation rights of a bonding
company, or a statutory trust;

(r)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor that has been invoiced for goods that
have not been shipped to the Account Debtor unless Bank, Borrower, and the
Account Debtor have entered into an agreement acceptable to Bank wherein the
Account Debtor acknowledges that (i) it has title to and has ownership of the
goods wherever located, (ii) a bona fide sale of the goods has occurred, and
(iii) it owes payment for such goods in accordance with invoices from Borrower
(sometimes called “bill and hold” accounts);

(s)Accounts for which the Account Debtor has not been invoiced;

(t)Accounts that represent non-trade receivables or that are derived by means
other than in the ordinary course of Borrower’s business;

(u)Accounts for which Borrower has permitted Account Debtor’s payment to extend
beyond ninety (90) days (including Accounts with a due date that is more than
ninety (90) days from invoice date);

(v)Accounts arising from chargebacks, debit memos or other payment deductions
taken by an Account Debtor;

28

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(w)Accounts arising from product returns and/or exchanges (sometimes called
“warranty” or “RMA” accounts);

(x)Accounts in which the Account Debtor disputes liability or makes any claim
(but only up to the disputed or claimed amount), or if the Account Debtor is
subject to an Insolvency Proceeding (whether voluntary or involuntary), or
becomes insolvent, or goes out of business;

(y)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor with respect to which Borrower has
received Deferred Revenue (but only to the extent of such Deferred Revenue);

(z)Accounts owing from an Account Debtor, whose total obligations to Borrower
exceed twenty-five percent (25.0%) of all Accounts, unless Bank approves in
writing; and

(aa)Accounts for which Bank in its good faith business judgment determines
collection to be doubtful, including, without limitation, accounts represented
by “refreshed” or “recycled” invoices.

“Equipment” is all “equipment” as defined in the Code with such additions to
such term as may hereafter be made, and includes without limitation all
machinery, fixtures, goods, vehicles (including motor vehicles and trailers),
and any interest in any of the foregoing.

“ERISA” is the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and its
regulations.

“Event of Default” is defined in Section 8.

“Exchange Act” is the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

“Foreign Currency” means lawful money of a country other than the United States.

“Funding Date” is any date on which a Credit Extension is made to or for the
account of Borrower which shall be a Business Day.

“FX Contract” is any foreign exchange contract by and between Borrower and Bank
under which Borrower commits to purchase from or sell to Bank a specific amount
of Foreign Currency on a specified date.

“GAAP” is generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and
pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of
Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial
Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other Person as
may be approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are
applicable to the circumstances as of the date of determination.

“General Intangibles” is all “general intangibles” as defined in the Code in
effect on the date hereof with such additions to such term as may hereafter be
made, and includes without limitation, all Intellectual Property, claims, income
and other tax refunds, security and other deposits, payment intangibles,
contract rights, options to purchase or sell real or personal property, rights
in all litigation presently or hereafter pending (whether in contract, tort or
otherwise), insurance policies (including without limitation key man, property
damage, and business interruption insurance), payments of insurance and rights
to payment of any kind.

“Governmental Approval” is any consent, authorization, approval, order, license,
franchise, permit, certificate, accreditation, registration, filing or notice,
of, issued by, from or to, or other act by or in respect of, any Governmental
Authority.

“Governmental Authority” is any nation or government, any state or other
political subdivision thereof, any agency, authority, instrumentality,
regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity exercising executive,
legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative functions of or
pertaining to government, any securities exchange and any self-regulatory
organization.

29

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Guarantor” is any Person providing a Guaranty in favor of Bank.

“Guaranty” is any guarantee of all or any part of the Obligations, as the same
may from time to time be amended, restated, modified or otherwise supplemented.

“Immaterial Subsidiary” is any Subsidiary of Borrower which is not a Material
Subsidiary.

“Indebtedness” is (a) indebtedness for borrowed money or the deferred price of
property or services, such as reimbursement and other obligations for surety
bonds and letters of credit, (b) obligations evidenced by notes, bonds,
debentures or similar instruments, (c) capital lease obligations, and (d)
Contingent Obligations.

“Indemnified Person” is defined in Section 12.3.

“Initial Audit” is Bank’s inspection of Borrower’s Accounts, the Collateral, and
Borrower’s Books, with results satisfactory to Bank in its sole and absolute
discretion.

“Insolvency Proceeding” is any proceeding by or against any Person under the
United States Bankruptcy Code, or any other bankruptcy or insolvency law,
including assignments for the benefit of creditors, compositions, extensions
generally with its creditors, or proceedings seeking reorganization,
arrangement, or other relief.

“Intellectual Property” means, with respect to any Person, all of such Person’s
right, title, and interest in and to the following:

(a)its Copyrights, Trademarks and Patents;

(b)any and all trade secrets and trade secret rights, including, without
limitation, any rights to unpatented inventions, know-how and operating manuals;

(c)any and all source code;

(d)any and all design rights which may be available to such Person;

(e)any and all claims for damages by way of past, present and future
infringement of any of the foregoing, with the right, but not the obligation, to
sue for and collect such damages for said use or infringement of the
Intellectual Property rights identified above; and

(f)all amendments, renewals and extensions of any of the Copyrights, Trademarks
or Patents.

“Inventory” is all “inventory” as defined in the Code in effect on the date
hereof with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made, and includes
without limitation all merchandise, raw materials, parts, supplies, packing and
shipping materials, work in process and finished products, including without
limitation such inventory as is temporarily out of Borrower’s custody or
possession or in transit and including any returned goods and any documents of
title representing any of the above.

“Investment” is any beneficial ownership interest in any Person (including
stock, partnership interest or other securities), and any loan, advance or
capital contribution to any Person.

“Key Person” is each of Borrower’s (a) Chief Executive Officer, who is Ted White
as of the Effective Date and (b) Chief Financial Officer, who is Brian Davis as
of the Effective Date.

“Letter of Credit” is a standby or commercial letter of credit issued by Bank
upon request of Borrower based upon an application, guarantee, indemnity, or
similar agreement.

30

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Lien” is a claim, mortgage, deed of trust, levy, charge, pledge, security
interest or other encumbrance of any kind, whether voluntarily incurred or
arising by operation of law or otherwise against any property.

“Loan Documents” are, collectively, this Agreement and any schedules, exhibits,
certificates, notices, and any other documents related to this Agreement, the
Subordination Agreement, the Perfection Certificate, the Mezzanine Loan
Agreement, any Control Agreement, any Bank Services Agreement, any subordination
agreement, any note, or notes or guaranties executed by Borrower or any
Guarantor, and any other present or future agreement by Borrower and/or any
Guarantor with or for the benefit of Bank, all as amended, restated, or
otherwise modified.

“Material Adverse Change” is (a) a material impairment in the perfection or
priority of Bank’s Lien in the Collateral or in the value of such Collateral;
(b) a material adverse change in the business, operations, or financial
condition of Borrower; or (c) a material impairment of the prospect of repayment
of any portion of the Obligations.

“Material Subsidiary” is any Subsidiary of Borrower that has assets or revenue
or material Intellectual Property valued in excess of Five Hundred Thousand
Dollars ($500,000.00) or is a Borrower or Guarantor hereunder.

“Mezzanine Loan Agreement” means that certain Mezzanine Loan and Security
Agreement by and among Bank (as Agent and Lender, as such terms are defined in
the Mezzanine Loan Agreement), WestRiver Innovation Lending Fund VIII, L.P., a
Delaware limited partnership, as Lender (as such term is defined in the
Mezzanine Loan Agreement), and Borrower, dated as of March 10, 2020 (as the same
may from time to time be amended, modified, supplemented and/or restated).

“Obligations” are Borrower’s obligations to pay when due any debts, principal,
interest, fees, Bank Expenses, the Termination Fee, Anniversary Fee, and other
amounts Borrower owes Bank now or later, whether under this Agreement, the other
Loan Documents, or otherwise, including, without limitation, all obligations
relating to Bank Services and interest accruing after Insolvency Proceedings
begin and debts, liabilities, or obligations of Borrower assigned to Bank, and
to perform Borrower’s duties under the Loan Documents.

“Operating Documents” are, for any Person, such Person’s formation documents, as
certified by the Secretary of State (or equivalent agency) of such Person’s
jurisdiction of organization on a date that is no earlier than thirty (30) days
prior to the Effective Date, and, (a) if such Person is a corporation, its
bylaws in current form, (b) if such Person is a limited liability company, its
limited liability company agreement (or similar agreement), and (c) if such
Person is a partnership, its partnership agreement (or similar agreement), each
of the foregoing with all current amendments or modifications thereto.

“Overadvance” is defined in Section 2.4.

“Patents” means all patents, patent applications and like protections including
without limitation improvements, divisions, continuations, renewals, reissues,
extensions and continuations-in-part of the same.

“Payment Date” is, the last calendar day of each month.

“Perfection Certificate” is defined in Section 5.1.

“Permitted Acquisition” or “Permitted Acquisitions” is any Acquisition by the
Borrower, disclosed to Bank, provided that each of the following shall be
applicable to any such Acquisition:

(a)no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing or would result
from the consummation of the proposed Acquisition;

(b)the entity or assets acquired in such Acquisition are in the same or similar
line of business as Borrower is in as of the date hereof or reasonably related
thereto;

(c)such transaction shall only involve an entity formed, and assets located, in
the United States;

31

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(d)the Acquisition is approved by the Board (or equivalent control group) of all
parties to the transaction;

(e)if the Acquisition includes a merger of Borrower, Borrower shall remain a
surviving entity after giving effect to such Acquisition; if, as a result of
such Acquisition, a new Subsidiary of Borrower is formed or acquired, Borrower
shall cause such Subsidiary to comply with Section 6.14, as required by Bank;

(f)Borrower shall provide Bank with written notice of the proposed Acquisition
at least thirty (30) Business Days prior to the anticipated closing date of the
proposed Acquisition; and not less than five (5) Business Days prior to the
anticipated closing date of the proposed Acquisition, copies of the acquisition
agreement and all other material documents relative to the proposed Acquisition
(or if such acquisition agreement and other material documents are not in final
form, drafts of such acquisition agreement and other material documents;
provided that Borrower shall deliver final forms of such acquisition agreement
and other material documents promptly upon completion);

(g)the total cash consideration, (excluding equity) for all such Acquisitions
does not exceed Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000.00) in the aggregate for all
such Acquisitions;

(h)the resulting transaction is accretive to Borrower’s business on a
prospective pro forma financial basis as of twelve (12) months after giving
effect to such Acquisition;

(i)no Indebtedness will be incurred, assumed, or would exist with respect to
Borrower or its Subsidiaries as a result of the contemplated transaction, other
than Permitted Indebtedness;

(j)the Acquisition shall not constitute an Unfriendly Acquisition;  and

(k)the entity or assets acquired in such Acquisition shall not be subject to any
Lien other than (x) the first-priority Liens granted in favor of Bank, if
applicable and (y) Permitted Liens.

“Permitted Indebtedness” is:

(a)Borrower’s Indebtedness to Bank under this Agreement and the other Loan
Documents;

(b)Indebtedness existing on the Effective Date which is shown on the Perfection
Certificate;

(c)Subordinated Debt;

(d)unsecured Indebtedness to trade creditors incurred in the ordinary course of
business;

(e)Indebtedness incurred as a result of endorsing negotiable instruments
received in the ordinary course of business;

(f)Indebtedness secured by Liens permitted under clauses (a) and (c) of the
definition of “Permitted Liens” hereunder;

(g)Indebtedness in connection with the Mezzanine Loan Agreement;

(h)to the extent constituting Indebtedness, Investments permitted pursuant to
subsection (f) of the definition of Permitted Investments;

(i)Indebtedness consisting of the financing of insurance premiums;

(j)other unsecured Indebtedness not otherwise permitted by Section 7.4 in an
aggregate principal amount not to exceed Five Hundred Thousand Dollars
($500,000.00) outstanding at any time;

(k)unsecured Indebtedness in respect of guarantees, bank guarantees, surety or
performance bonds and similar instruments issued for (i) Borrower’s account in
the ordinary course of Borrower’s business or (ii) the account of any Subsidiary
of Borrower in the ordinary course of Borrower’s business in a maximum aggregate
amount not to exceed Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) in order to
provide security for: (A) workers’ compensation claims, unemployment insurance
and other types of social security and employee health and disability

32

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

benefits, or casualty-liability insurance, payment obligations in connection
with self-insurance or similar requirements; and (B) tenders, completion
guarantees, statutory obligations, surety, environmental or appeal bonds, bids,
leases, government contracts, contracts (other than for borrowed money),
performance bonds or other obligations of a like nature; and

(l)extensions, refinancings, modifications, amendments and restatements of any
items of Permitted Indebtedness (a) through (k) above, provided that the
principal amount thereof is not increased or the terms thereof are not modified
to impose more burdensome terms upon Borrower or its Subsidiary, as the case may
be.

“Permitted Investments” are:

(a)Investments (including, without limitation, Subsidiaries) existing on the
Effective Date which are shown on the Perfection Certificate;

(b)(i) Investments consisting of Cash Equivalents, and (ii) any Investments
permitted by Borrower’s investment policy, as amended from time to time,
provided that such investment policy (and any such amendment thereto) has been
approved in writing by Bank;

(c)Investments consisting of the endorsement of negotiable instruments for
deposit or collection or similar transactions in the ordinary course of
Borrower;

(d)Investments consisting of deposit accounts (but only to the extent that
Borrower is permitted to maintain such accounts pursuant to Section 6.8 of this
Agreement) in which Bank has a first priority perfected security interest;

(e)Investments accepted in connection with Transfers permitted by Section 7.1;

(f)Investments by Borrower or any Subsidiary in (i) any Subsidiary that is a
Borrower or a secured Guarantor or (ii) in any Borrower;

(g)Investments consisting of the creation of a Subsidiary for the purpose of
consummating a merger transaction permitted by Section 7.3 of this Agreement,
which is otherwise a Permitted Investment;

(h)Investments consisting of (i) travel advances and employee relocation loans
and other employee loans and advances in the ordinary course of business, and
(ii) loans to employees, officers or directors relating to the purchase of
equity securities of Borrower or its Subsidiaries pursuant to employee stock
purchase plans or agreements approved by the Board;

(i)Investments (including debt obligations) received in connection with the
bankruptcy or reorganization of customers or suppliers and in settlement of
delinquent obligations of, and other disputes with, customers or suppliers
arising in the ordinary course of business;

(j)Investments consisting of notes receivable of, or prepaid royalties and other
credit extensions, to customers and suppliers who are not Affiliates, in the
ordinary course of business; provided that this paragraph (j) shall not apply to
Investments of Borrower in any Subsidiary;

(k)joint ventures or strategic alliances in the ordinary course of Borrower’s
business, provided that any cash investments by Borrower do not exceed Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) in the aggregate in any fiscal year;

(l)deposits made to secure the performance of leases in the ordinary course of
business;

(m)Permitted Acquisitions; and

33

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(n)other Investments not otherwise permitted by Section 7, not exceeding Five
Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) in the aggregate outstanding at any time.

“Permitted Liens” are:

(a)Liens existing on the Effective Date which are shown on the Perfection
Certificate or arising under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents;

(b)Liens for taxes, fees, assessments or other government charges or levies,
either (i) not due and payable or (ii) being contested in good faith and for
which Borrower maintains adequate reserves on Borrower’s Books, provided that no
notice of any such Lien has been filed or recorded under the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as amended, and the Treasury Regulations adopted thereunder;

(c)purchase money Liens or capital leases (i) on Equipment acquired or held by
Borrower incurred for financing the acquisition of the Equipment securing no
more than Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000.00) in the aggregate amount
outstanding, or (ii) existing on Equipment when acquired, if the Lien is
confined to the property and improvements and the proceeds of the Equipment;

(d)Liens of carriers, warehousemen, suppliers, or other Persons that are
possessory in nature arising in the ordinary course of business so long as such
Liens attach only to Inventory and which are not delinquent or remain payable
without penalty or which are being contested in good faith and by appropriate
proceedings which proceedings have the effect of preventing the forfeiture or
sale of the property subject thereto;

(e)Liens in connection with the Mezzanine Loan Agreement;

(f)leases or subleases of real property granted in the ordinary course of
Borrower’s business (or, if referring to another Person, in the ordinary course
of such Person’s business), and leases, subleases, non-exclusive licenses or
sublicenses of personal property (other than Intellectual Property) granted in
the ordinary course of Borrower’s business (or, if referring to another Person,
in the ordinary course of such Person’s business), if the leases, subleases,
licenses and sublicenses do not prohibit granting Bank a security interest
therein;

(g)non-exclusive licenses of Intellectual Property granted to third parties in
the ordinary course of business, and licenses of Intellectual Property that
could not result in a legal transfer of title of the licensed property that may
be exclusive in respects other than territory and that may be exclusive as to
territory only as to discreet geographical areas outside of the United States;

(h)Liens arising from attachments or judgments, orders, or decrees in
circumstances not constituting an Event of Default under Sections 8.4 and 8.7;

(i)Liens in favor of other financial institutions arising in connection with
Borrower’s deposit and/or securities accounts held at such institutions,
provided that (i) Bank has a first priority perfected security interest in the
amounts held in such deposit and/or securities accounts (ii) such accounts are
permitted to be maintained pursuant to Section 6.8 of this Agreement;

(j)Liens on insurance proceeds in favor of insurance companies granted solely as
a security for financed premiums;

(k)pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance
with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security
laws or regulations (including pledges of deposits securing liability for
reimbursement or indemnity arrangements and letters of credit with respect
thereto);

(l)Liens to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts (other than for
borrowed money), contracts for the purchase of property permitted hereunder,
leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and
other obligations of a like nature, in each case, incurred in the ordinary
course of business, not representing an obligation for borrowed money;

(m)Liens arising from precautionary filings under the Code;

(n)easements, rights-of-way, restrictions and other similar encumbrances
incurred in the ordinary course of business that, in the aggregate, are not
substantial in an amount and that do not in any case materially

34

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

detract from the value of the property subject thereto or materially interfere
with the ordinary conduct of the business of Borrower or any Subsidiary;

(o)Liens on assets of Borrower or its Subsidiaries so long as (i) such Liens do
not cover any property not subject to Bank’s Liens and (ii) the aggregate
outstanding principal amount of the obligations secured thereby does not exceed
One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000.00) at any time; and  

(p)Liens incurred in the extension, renewal or refinancing of the Indebtedness
secured by Liens described in (a) through (o), but any extension, renewal or
replacement Lien must be limited to the property encumbered by the existing Lien
and the principal amount of the indebtedness may not increase.

“Person” is any individual, sole proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
company, joint venture, company, trust, unincorporated organization,
association, corporation, institution, public benefit corporation, firm, joint
stock company, estate, entity or government agency.

“Prime Rate” is the rate of interest per annum from time to time published in
the money rates section of The Wall Street Journal or any successor publication
thereto as the “prime rate” then in effect; provided that, in the event such
rate of interest is less than zero, such rate shall be deemed to be zero for
purposes of this Agreement; and provided further that if such rate of interest,
as set forth from time to time in the money rates section of The Wall Street
Journal, becomes unavailable for any reason as determined by Bank, the “Prime
Rate” shall mean the rate of interest per annum announced by Bank as its prime
rate in effect at its principal office in the State of California (such Bank
announced Prime Rate not being intended to be the lowest rate of interest
charged by Bank in connection with extensions of credit to debtors); provided
that, in the event such rate of interest is less than zero, such rate shall be
deemed to be zero for purposes of this Agreement.

“Quarterly Financial Statements” is defined in Section 6.2(e).

“Registered Organization” is any “registered organization” as defined in the
Code with such additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“Requirement of Law” is as to any Person, the organizational or governing
documents of such Person, and any law (statutory or common), treaty, rule or
regulation or determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental
Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or any of its
property or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.

“Reserves” means, as of any date of determination, such amounts as Bank may from
time to time establish and revise in its good faith business judgment, reducing
the amount of Advances and other financial accommodations which would otherwise
be available to Borrower (a) to reflect events, conditions, contingencies or
risks which, as determined by Bank in its good faith business judgment, do or
may adversely affect (i) the Collateral or any other property which is security
for the Obligations or its value (including without limitation any increase in
delinquencies of Accounts), (ii) the assets, business or prospects of Borrower
or any Guarantor, or (iii) the security interests and other rights of Bank in
the Collateral (including the enforceability, perfection and priority thereof);
or (b) to reflect Bank's reasonable belief that any collateral report or
financial information furnished by or on behalf of Borrower or any Guarantor to
Bank is or may have been incomplete, inaccurate or misleading in any material
respect; or (c) in respect of any state of facts which Bank determines
constitutes an Event of Default or may, with notice or passage of time or both,
constitute an Event of Default.

“Responsible Officer” is any of the Chief Executive Officer, President, Chief
Financial Officer and Controller of Borrower.  

“Restricted License” is any material license or other agreement with respect to
which Borrower is the licensee (a) that prohibits or otherwise restricts
Borrower from granting a security interest in Borrower’s interest in such
license or agreement or any other property, or (b) for which a default under or
termination of could interfere with Bank’s right to sell any Collateral.

“Revolving Line” is an aggregate principal amount equal to Five Million Dollars
($5,000,000.00).

35

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

“Revolving Line Maturity Date” is March 1, 2024.

“SEC” shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission, any successor thereto,
and any analogous Governmental Authority.

“Securities Account” is any “securities account” as defined in the Code with
such additions to such term as may hereafter be made.

“Specified Affiliate” is any Person (a) more than ten percent (10.0%) of whose
aggregate issued and outstanding equity or ownership securities or interests,
voting, non-voting or both, are owned or held directly or indirectly,
beneficially or of record, by Borrower, and/or (b) whose equity or ownership
securities or interests representing more than ten percent (10.0%) of such
Person’s total outstanding combined voting power are owned or held directly or
indirectly, beneficially or of record, by Borrower.

“Subordinated Debt” is indebtedness incurred by Borrower subordinated to all of
Borrower’s now or hereafter indebtedness to Bank (pursuant to a subordination,
intercreditor, or other similar agreement in form and substance satisfactory to
Bank entered into between Bank and the other creditor), on terms acceptable to
Bank.

“Subordination Agreement” means that certain Subordination Agreement by and
among Bank, Agent (as such term is defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement) and
the Lenders (as such term is defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement), dated as
of March 10, 2020 (as the same may from time to time be amended, modified,
supplemented and/or restated).

“Subsidiary” is, as to any Person, a corporation, partnership, limited liability
company or other entity of which shares of stock or other ownership interests
having ordinary voting power (other than stock or such other ownership interests
having such power only by reason of the happening of a contingency) to elect a
majority of the board of directors or other managers of such corporation,
partnership or other entity are at the time owned, or the management of which is
otherwise controlled, directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries,
or both, by such Person.  Unless the context otherwise requires, each reference
to a Subsidiary herein shall be a reference to a Subsidiary of Borrower or
Guarantor.

“Termination Fee” is defined in Section 2.5(c) hereof.

“Testing Period” is, at all times, commencing as of September 30, 2020, when
unrestricted and unencumbered cash (other than Liens in favor of Bank under this
Agreement) held in accounts in the name of Borrower maintained with Bank is less
than two times (2x) the aggregate outstanding Obligations of Borrower to Bank.

“Trademarks” means any trademark and servicemark rights, whether registered or
not, applications to register and registrations of the same and like
protections, and the entire goodwill of the business of Borrower connected with
and symbolized by such trademarks.

“Transfer” is defined in Section 7.1.

“Unfriendly Acquisition” is any Acquisition that has not, at the time of the
first public announcement of an offer relating thereto, been approved by the
board of directors (or other legally recognized governing body) of the Person to
be acquired; except that with respect to any Acquisition of a non-U.S. Person,
an otherwise friendly Acquisition shall not be deemed to be unfriendly if it is
not customary in such jurisdiction to obtain such approval prior to the first
public announcement of an offer relating to a friendly Acquisition.

[Signature page follows.]

 

36

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed
as of the Effective Date.

BORROWER:

 

VERRICA PHARMACEUTICALS INC.

 

 

By: /s/ A. Brian Davis

 

Name: A. Brian Davis

 

Title: Chief Financial Officer

 

 

BANK:

 

SILICON VALLEY BANK

 

 

By: /s/ Michael McMahon

 

Name: Michael McMahon

 

Title: Director




Signature Page to Loan and Security Agreement

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

EXHIBIT A - COLLATERAL DESCRIPTION

 

The Collateral consists of all of Borrower’s right, title and interest in and to
the following personal property:

All goods, Accounts (including health-care receivables), Equipment, Inventory,
contract rights or rights to payment of money, leases, license agreements,
franchise agreements, General Intangibles (except as provided below), commercial
tort claims, documents, instruments (including any promissory notes), chattel
paper (whether tangible or electronic), cash, deposit accounts, certificates of
deposit, fixtures, letters of credit rights (whether or not the letter of credit
is evidenced by a writing), securities, and all other investment property,
supporting obligations, and financial assets, whether now owned or hereafter
acquired, wherever located; and

all Borrower’s Books relating to the foregoing, and any and all claims, rights
and interests in any of the above and all substitutions for, additions,
attachments, accessories, accessions and improvements to and replacements,
products, proceeds and insurance proceeds of any or all of the foregoing.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Collateral does not include (a) any property
to the extent that such grant of security interest is prohibited by any
Requirement of Law of a Governmental Authority or constitutes a breach or
default under or results in the termination of or requires any consent not
obtained under, any contract, license, agreement, instrument or other document
evidencing or giving rise to such property, except to the extent that such
Requirement of Law or the term in such contract, license, agreement, instrument
or other document providing for such prohibition, breach, default or termination
or requiring such consent is ineffective under Section 9-406, 9-407, 9-408 or
9-409 of the Code (or any successor provision or provisions) of any relevant
jurisdiction or any other applicable law (including the Bankruptcy Code) or
principles of equity; provided, however, that such security interest shall
attach immediately at such time as such Requirement of Law is not effective or
applicable, or such prohibition, breach, default or termination is no longer
applicable or is waived, and to the extent severable, shall attach immediately
to any portion of the Collateral that does not result in such consequences; (b)
Equipment that is subject to a Lien that is otherwise permitted pursuant to
subsection (c) of the definition of “Permitted Liens” if the holder of such Lien
has expressly prohibited Borrower in writing from granting Liens on such
property in favor of third parties; provided that immediately upon the
ineffectiveness, lapse, or termination of any such provision, the term
“Collateral” shall include, and Borrower shall be deemed to have granted a
security interest in, all of its rights, title and interests in and to such
property as if such provision had never been in effect; or (c) Intellectual
Property; provided, however, the Collateral shall include all Accounts and all
proceeds of Intellectual Property. If a judicial authority (including a U.S.
Bankruptcy Court) would hold that a security interest in the underlying
Intellectual Property is necessary to have a security interest in such Accounts
and such property that are proceeds of Intellectual Property, then the
Collateral shall automatically, and effective as of the Effective Date, include
the Intellectual Property to the extent necessary to permit perfection of Bank’s
security interest in such Accounts and such other property of Borrower that are
proceeds of the Intellectual Property.

Pursuant to the terms of a certain negative pledge arrangement with Bank,
Borrower has agreed not to encumber any of its Intellectual Property without
Bank’s prior written consent.

 

 

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Certain information has been excluded from this agreement (indicated by “[***]”)
because such information (i) is not material and (ii) would be competitively
harmful if publicly disclosed.

EXHIBIT B

COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE

 

TO:SILICON VALLEY BANKDate:  

FROM:  VERRICA PHARMACEUTICALS INC.

 

The undersigned authorized officer of VERRICA PHARMACEUTICALS INC. (“Borrower”)
certifies that under the terms and conditions of the Loan and Security Agreement
between Borrower and Bank (the “Agreement”), (1) Borrower is in complete
compliance for the period ending _______________ with all required covenants
except as noted below, (2) there are no Events of Default, (3) all
representations and warranties in the Agreement are true and correct in all
material respects on this date except as noted below; provided, however, that
such materiality qualifier shall not be applicable to any representations and
warranties that already are qualified or modified by materiality in the text
thereof; and provided, further that those representations and warranties
expressly referring to a specific date shall be true, accurate and complete in
all material respects as of such date, (4) Borrower, and each of its
Subsidiaries, has timely filed all required tax returns and reports, and
Borrower has timely paid all foreign, federal, state and local taxes,
assessments, deposits and contributions owed by Borrower except as otherwise
permitted pursuant to the terms of Section 5.9 of the Agreement, and (5) no
Liens have been levied or claims made against Borrower or any of its
Subsidiaries, if any, relating to unpaid employee payroll or benefits of which
Borrower has not previously provided written notification to Bank.  Attached are
the required documents supporting the certification.  The undersigned certifies
that these are prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied from one
period to the next except as explained in an accompanying letter or
footnotes.  The undersigned acknowledges that no borrowings may be requested at
any time or date of determination that Borrower is not in compliance with any of
the terms of the Agreement, and that compliance is determined not just at the
date this certificate is delivered.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise
defined herein shall have the meanings given them in the Agreement.

Please indicate compliance status by circling Yes/No under “Complies” column.

 

Reporting Covenants

Required

Complies

 

 

 

Monthly revenue, net profit and cash balance

statements with Compliance Certificate

Monthly within 30 days

Yes   No

Quarterly financial statements with
Compliance Certificate

Within 45 days of quarter end (within 90 days of quarter end for Q4)  

 

Yes   No

Annual financial statement with Compliance Certificate (CPA Audited)

FYE within 180 days

 

Yes   No

10-Q Report

Within 45 days of quarter end for 10-Q (within 90 days of quarter end for Q4)

Yes   No

Filed 10-Q, 10-K and 8-K

Within 5 days after filing with

SEC

Yes   No

A/R Agings, A/P Agings & Inventory Reports

Monthly within 30 days when an Advance is outstanding

or has been requested

Yes   No

Borrowing Base Reports

With each Advance request and monthly within 30 days

when an Advance is outstanding

Yes   No

Board approved projections

30 days of FYE and as amended/updated

Yes   No

 

 

Financial Covenants

Required

Actual

Complies

 

 

 

 

Minimum Revenue*

$                *

$

Yes   No

* as set forth in Section 6.9

 

The following financial covenant analyses and information set forth in Schedule
1 attached hereto are true and accurate as of the date of this Certificate.

 

224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following are the exceptions with respect to the certification above: (If no
exceptions exist, state “No exceptions to note.”)

 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 

VERRICA PHARMACEUTICALS INC.

 

 

By:

Name:

Title:

 

BANK USE ONLY

 

Received by: _____________________

authorized signer

Date: _________________________

 

Verified: ________________________

authorized signer

Date: _________________________

 

Compliance Status:Yes     No

 

 

 




224419751 v2

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Schedule 1 to Compliance Certificate

 

Financial Covenants of Borrower

 

In the event of a conflict between this Schedule and the Agreement, the terms of
the Agreement shall govern.

 

Dated:____________________

 

I.Minimum Revenue (Section 6.9)

Required: During a Testing Period, Borrower shall achieve (calculated with
respect to Borrower only and not on a consolidated basis) for the most recent
calendar quarter then-ended and each calendar quarter thereafter if such Testing
Period is still in effect, minimum net revenue, generated from the sale of
Borrower’s products (excluding revenue generated with respect to licensing
arrangements), determined in accordance with GAAP, measured on a trailing six
(6) month basis, of at least:  

Trailing Six (6) Month Period Ending

Minimum Revenue

 

September 30, 2020

[***]

December 31, 2020

[***]

March 31, 2021

[***]

June 30, 2021

 

September 30, 2021

 

December 31, 2021

[***]

 

[***]

 

[***]

 

Actual:

A.

Minimum Revenue

 

$

 

Is line A equal to or greater than ________*?

* As set forth above.

  No, not in compliance  Yes, in compliance

 

224419751 v2

# Source Metadata

- Domain: legal
- Context ID: 232a0b5a960b9055408af8b4906b5bcb
- Approx. Length: 36545 characters