# Context

Passage 1:
Guy Gaunt
Admiral Sir Guy Reginald Archer Gaunt,  (25 May 1869 – 18 May 1953) was an Australian-born officer of the Royal Navy, counter-intelligence officer and a British Conservative Party politician.
Gaunt was born in Ballarat, Australia, to William Henry Gaunt and his wife Elizabeth Mary Palmer. Gaunt's brother-in-law was Alexander Stenson Palmer (banker and M.P. for Victoria). Gaunt's brother Ernest Gaunt was also an admiral. Their sister, Mary Gaunt, was a well-known author in Australia and wrote several travel books. Guy was educated at Melbourne Grammar School from 1881 to 1883.

Naval career
Gaunt's parents wanted him to become a lawyer, but he chose to go to sea. He began training for the merchant navy, but transferred to the Royal Navy in 1885, one of the "hungry hundred" merchant navy officers who were commissioned via the supplementary list.
Gaunt served as a lieutenant on several vessels in the Pacific Ocean, and was promoted to the rank of Commander in 1901. He became a captain in 1907, commanding a series of cruisers and the battleships HMS Majestic and HMS Thunderer. He saw action in the Philippines in 1897 and Samoa in 1901.In 1914 Gaunt was appointed naval attaché to the United States, and was instrumental in infiltrating the Hindu–German Conspiracy during the First World War. Gaunt headed the intelligence network operated by Courtenay Bennett's intelligence and liaised with the Czech intelligence network operated by E. V. Voska. On learning of the plot from the Czech European network at the outbreak of the war, Voska passed on the information to Gaunt and to Tomáš Masaryk who further passed on the information the American authorities. Voska's American network was a counter-espionage network of nearly 80 members who, as Habsburg subjects, were presumed to be German supporters but were involved in spying on German and Austrian diplomats.
When the U.S. entered the war in 1917, Gaunt was appointed as liaison officer. In 1918 he served on convoys across the Atlantic and in June was appointed to the naval intelligence staff at the Admiralty.
Gaunt was promoted on the retired list to rear admiral in October 1918, vice admiral in July 1924 and admiral in February 1928. He was knighted as  in 1918.

Political career
Gaunt first stood as a candidate for parliament at the 1918 general election. He was the Liberal candidate for Leek and despite receiving the Coalition Coupon, he was unable to hold the seat. Gaunt was elected as Unionist Member of Parliament (MP) for the Buckrose constituency in the East Riding of Yorkshire at the 1922 general election, replacing the Liberal Algernon Moreing.
Gaunt resigned from the House of Commons in 1926, when he was cited as co-respondent in the divorce case between Sir Richard Cruise and his wife.

Family
Gaunt married a widow, Mrs Margaret Elizabeth Worthington (daughter of Sir Thomas Wardle) at Hong Kong in 1904. 
She divorced him in 1927 following the scandal with Lady Cruise, and he retired to Tangier. He later remarried on 1 December 1932 a 35-year-old widow, Sybil Victoria Joseph, née Grant White and had two daughters. He returned to live in Cobham, Surrey and died at Woking Hospital on 18 May 1953 and was cremated.Gaunt's autobiography, The Yield of the Years, was published in 1940. His brother Ernest Gaunt was also an admiral in the Royal Navy; his sister, Mary Gaunt, was a novelist.
Passage 2:
Comprehensive school
A comprehensive school is a secondary school for pupils aged 11–16 or 11–18, that does not select its intake on the basis of academic achievement or aptitude, in contrast to a selective school system where admission is restricted on the basis of selection criteria, usually academic performance. The term is commonly used in relation to England and Wales, where comprehensive schools were introduced as state schools on an experimental basis in the 1940s and became more widespread from 1965. They may be part of a local education authority or be a self governing academy or part of a multi-academy trust.

About 90% of English secondary school pupils attend a comprehensive school (academy schools, community schools, faith schools, foundation schools, free schools, studio schools, university technical colleges, state boarding schools, City Technology Colleges, etc.). Specialist schools may however select up to 10% of their intake for aptitude in their specialism. A school may have a few specialisms, like arts (media, performing arts, visual arts), business and enterprise, engineering, humanities, languages, mathematics, computing, music, science, sports, and technology. They are not permitted to select on academic ability generally. Comprehensive schools correspond broadly to the public school in the United States, Canada and Australia.

England
Comprehensive schools provide an entitlement curriculum to all children, without selection whether due to financial considerations or attainment. A consequence of that is a wider ranging curriculum, including practical subjects such as design and technology and vocational learning, which were less common or non-existent in grammar schools. Providing post-16 education cost-effectively becomes more challenging for smaller comprehensive schools, because of the number of courses needed to cover a broader curriculum with comparatively fewer students. This is why schools have tended to get larger and also why many local authorities have organised secondary education into 11–16 schools, with the post-16 provision provided by sixth form colleges and further education colleges. Comprehensive schools do not select their intake on the basis of academic achievement or aptitude. In addition, government initiatives such as the City Technology Colleges and specialist schools programmes have expanded the comprehensive model. City Technology Colleges are independent schools in urban areas that are free to go to. They're funded by central government with company contributions and emphasise teaching science and technology.

English secondary schools are mostly comprehensive (i.e. no entry exam), although the intake of comprehensive schools can vary widely, especially in urban areas with several local schools. Nearly 90% of state-funded secondary schools are specialist schools, receiving extra funding to develop one or more subjects (performing arts, business, humanities, art and design, languages, science, mathematics, technology, engineering, sports, etc.) in which the school specialises, which can select up to 10% of their intake for aptitude in the specialism. In these schools children could be selected on the basis of curriculum aptitude related to the school's specialism even though the schools do take quotas from each quartile of the attainment range to ensure they were not selective by attainment. In the selective school system, which survives in several parts of the United Kingdom, admission is dependent on selection criteria, most commonly a cognitive test or tests. Most comprehensives are secondary schools for children between the ages of 11 and 16, but in a few areas there are comprehensive middle schools, and in some places the secondary level is divided into two, for students aged 11 to 14 and those aged 14 to 18, roughly corresponding to the US middle school (or junior high school) and high school, respectively. With the advent of Key Stages in the National Curriculum some local authorities reverted from the Middle School system to 11–16 and 11–18 schools so that the transition between schools corresponds to the end of one key stage and the start of another. In principle, comprehensive schools were conceived as "neighbourhood" schools for all students in a specified catchment area.
Maths free schools like Exeter Mathematics School are for 16 to 19 year pupils who have a great aptitude for maths. As set out in the government's Industrial Strategy, maths schools help to encourage highly skilled graduates in sectors that depend on science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) skills. The aim of maths schools is to prepare the most mathematically able pupils to succeed in mathematics-related disciplines at highly selective maths universities and pursue mathematically intensive careers. Maths schools can also be centres of excellence in raising attainment, supporting and influencing the teaching of mathematics in their surrounding area, and are central to their associated universities' widening participation commitments.

Technical and vocational education in comprehensive schools are introduced during the secondary school years and goes on until further and higher education. Secondary vocational education is also known as further education. Further education incorporates vocational oriented education as well as a combination of general secondary education. Students can also go on to a further education college to prepare themselves for the Business and Technology Education Council, T-levels, and National Vocational Qualifications. Major provider of vocational qualifications in England include the City and Guilds of London Institute and Edexcel. Higher National Certificates and Higher National Diplomas typically require 1 and 2 years of full-time study and credit from either HNE or Diplomas can be transferred toward an undergraduate degree. Along with the HNC and HND, students who are interested in other vocational qualifications may pursue a foundation degree, which is a qualification that trains people to be highly skilled technicians. The National Apprenticeship Service also offers vocational education where people at ages of 16 and older enter apprenticeships in order to learn a skilled trade. There are over 60 different certifications can be obtained through an apprenticeship, which typically lasts from up to 3 years. Trades apprentices receive paid wages during training and spend one day at school and the rest in the workplace to hone their skills.
The first comprehensives were set up after the Second World War. At that time the terms "multi-lateral" or "multi-bias" were also used to describe non-selective secondary schools. In 1946 Walworth School was one of five 'experimental' comprehensive schools set up by the London County Council although London's first purpose built comprehensive was Kidbrooke School built in 1954. An early comprehensive school was Holyhead County School in Anglesey in 1949. Coventry opened two comprehensive schools in 1954 by combining grammar schools and secondary modern schools. These were Caludon Castle School and Woodlands School. Another early example was the 1956 Tividale Comprehensive School in Tipton. The first, purpose-built comprehensive in the North of England was Colne Valley High School near Huddersfield in 1956.
The largest expansion of comprehensive schools resulted from a policy decision taken in 1965 by Anthony Crosland, Secretary of State for Education in the 1964–1970 Labour government. The policy decision was implemented by Circular 10/65, a request to local education authorities to plan for conversion. Students sat the 11+ examination in their last year of primary education and were sent to one of a secondary modern, secondary technical or grammar school depending on their perceived ability. Secondary technical schools were never widely implemented and for 20 years there was a virtual bipartite system which saw fierce competition for the available grammar school places, which varied between 15% and 25% of total secondary places.
In 1970 Margaret Thatcher, the Secretary of State for Education in the new Conservative government, ended the compulsion on local authorities to convert, however, many local authorities were so far down the path that it would have been prohibitively expensive to attempt to reverse the process, and more comprehensive schools were established under Thatcher than any other education secretary. By 1975 the majority of local authorities in England and Wales had abandoned the 11-Plus examination and moved to a comprehensive system. Over that 10-year period many secondary modern schools and grammar schools were amalgamated to form large neighbourhood comprehensives, whilst a number of new schools were built to accommodate a growing school population. By the mid-1970s the system had been almost fully implemented, with virtually no secondary modern schools remaining. Many grammar schools were either closed or changed to comprehensive status. Some local authorities, including Sandwell and Dudley in the West Midlands, changed all of its state secondary schools to comprehensive schools during the 1970s.

In 1976 the future Labour Prime Minister James Callaghan launched what became known as the 'great debate' on the education system. He went on to list the areas he felt needed closest scrutiny: the case for a core curriculum, the validity and use of informal teaching methods, the role of school inspection and the future of the examination system. Comprehensive school remains the most common type of state secondary school in England, and the only type in Wales. They account for around 90% of pupils, or 64% if one does not count schools with low-level selection. This figure varies by region.
Since the 1988 Education Reform Act, parents have a right to choose which school their child should go to or whether to not send them to school at all and to home educate them instead. The concept of "school choice" introduces the idea of competition between state schools, a fundamental change to the original "neighbourhood comprehensive" model, and is partly intended as a means by which schools that are perceived to be inferior are forced either to improve or, if hardly anyone wants to go there, to close down. Government policy is currently promoting 'specialisation' whereby parents choose a secondary school appropriate for their child's interests and skills. Most initiatives focus on parental choice and information, implementing a pseudo-market incentive to encourage better schools. Both Conservative Party and Labour governments experimented with alternatives to the original neighbourhood comprehensive.Experiments have included:

partnerships where successful schools share knowledge and best practice with nearby schools
federations of schools, where a partnership is formalised through joint governance arrangements
City Technology Colleges, 15 new schools where one fifth of the capital cost is privately funded
Academy schools, state schools not controlled by the local authority, which are allowed to select up to 10% of admissions by ability
Free schools, state schools not controlled by the local authority, which are allowed to select up to 10% of admissions by abilityFollowing the advice of Sir Cyril Taylor—former businessman and Conservative politician, and chairman of the Specialist Schools and Academies Trust (SSAT)—in the mid-1990s, all parties have backed the creation of specialist schools, which focus on excellence in a particular subject and are theoretically allowed to select up to 10% of their intake. This policy consensus had brought to an end the notion that all children will go to their local school, and assumes parents will choose a school they feel most meets their child's needs.

Curriculum
All maintained schools in England are required to follow the National Curriculum, which is made up of twelve subjects. Every state school must offer a curriculum which is balanced and broadly based and which promotes the spiritual, moral, cultural, mental and physical development of pupils at the school and of society, and prepares pupils at the school for the opportunities, responsibilities and experiences of later life. For each of the statutory curriculum subjects, the Secretary of State for Education is required to set out a Programme of Study which outlines the content and matters which must be taught in those subjects at the relevant Key Stages. Teachers should set high expectations for every pupil. They should plan stretching work for pupils whose attainment is significantly above the expected standard. Teachers should use appropriate assessment to set targets which are deliberately ambitious.Under the National Curriculum, all pupils undergo National Curriculum assessments at the end of Key Stage 2 in Year 6 in the core subjects of English, Mathematics and Science. Individual teacher assessment is used for foundation subjects, such as art and design, geography, history, design and technology, and computing. Pupils take GCSE exams at Key Stage 4 in Year 11, but may also choose to work towards the attainment of alternative qualifications, such as the National Vocational Qualifications and Business and Technology Education Council. Pupils take GCSEs examinations in the core English literature, English language, mathematics, science, and entitlement subjects from the arts, humanities, design and technology, and languages. The core subjects English, Mathematics and Science are compulsory for all pupils aged 5 to 16. A range of other subjects, known as foundation subjects, are compulsory in each Key Stage:

Art and design
Citizenship
Design and technology
Geography
History
Computing
Foreign languages
Music
Physical educationIn addition to the compulsory subjects, pupils at Key Stage 4 have a statutory entitlement to be able to study at least one subject from the arts (comprising art and design, music, photography, dance, drama and media arts), design and technology (comprising design and technology, electronics, engineering, food preparation and nutrition), the humanities (comprising geography and history), and modern foreign languages. Optional subjects include computer science, business studies, economics, astronomy, classical civilisation, film studies, geology, psychology, sociology, ancient languages, and ancient history.The Department for Education has drawn up a list of preferred subjects known as the English Baccalaureate on the results in eight GCSEs including English, mathematics, the sciences (physics, chemistry, biology, computer science), history, geography, and an ancient or modern foreign language.All schools are required to make provision for a daily act of collective worship and must teach religious education to pupils at every key stage and sex and relationships education to pupils in secondary education. Parents can withdraw their children for all or part of the lessons. Local councils are responsible for deciding the RE syllabus, but faith schools and academies can set their own. All schools should make provision for personal, social, health and economic education (PSHE). Schools are also free to include other subjects or topics of their choice in planning and designing their own programme of education.

School years
Children are normally placed in year groups determined by the age they will attain at their birthday during the school year. In most cases progression from one year group to another is based purely on chronological age, although it is possible in some circumstances for a student to repeat or skip a year. Repetition may be due to a lack of attendance, for example from a long illness, and especially in Years requiring standard tests. A child significantly more advanced than their classmates may be forwarded one or more years.
State-funded nursery education is available from the age of 3, and may be full-time or part-time, though this is not compulsory. If registered with a state school, attendance is compulsory beginning with the term following the child's fifth birthday. Children can be enrolled in the reception year in September of that school year, thus beginning school at age 4 or 4.5. Unless the student chooses to stay within the education system, compulsory school attendance ends on the last Friday in June during the academic year in which a student attains the age of 16.In the vast majority of cases, pupils progress from primary to secondary levels at age 11; in some areas either or both of the primary and secondary levels are further subdivided. A few areas have three-tier education systems with an intermediate middle level from age 9 to 13. Years 12 and 13 are often referred to as "lower sixth form" and "upper sixth form" respectively, reflecting their distinct, voluntary nature as the A-level years. While most secondary schools enter their pupils for A-levels, some schools offer the International Baccalaureate or Cambridge Pre-U qualifications instead.

Scotland
Scotland has a very different educational system from England and Wales, though also based on comprehensive education. It has different ages of transfer, different examinations and a different philosophy of choice and provision. All publicly funded primary and secondary schools are comprehensive. The Scottish Government has rejected plans for specialist schools as of 2005.

Australia
When the first comprehensive schools appeared in the 1950s, the Australian Government started to transition to comprehensive schooling which has been expanding and improving ever since. Prior to the transition into comprehensive schooling systems, primary and secondary state schools regularly measured students' academic merit based on their performance in public examinations. The state of Western Australia was the first to replace selective school systems, then Queensland, and finally South Australia and Victoria.The Australian education system is organised through three compulsory school types. Students commence their education in Primary school, which runs for seven or eight years, starting at kindergarten through to Year 6 or 7. The next is Secondary school which runs for three or four years, from Year 7 or 8 to Year 10. Finally, Senior Secondary school which runs for two years, completing Years 11 and 12. Each school tier follows a comprehensive curriculum that is categorised into sequences for each Year-level. The Year-level follows specific sequence content and achievement for each subject, which can be interrelated through cross-curricula. In order for students to complete and graduate each tier-level of schooling, they need to complete the subject sequences of content and achievement. Once students have completed Year 12, they may choose to enter into Tertiary education. The two-tier Tertiary education system in Australia includes both higher education (i.e.: university, college, other institutions) and vocational education and training (VET). Higher education works off of the Australian Qualifications Framework and prepares Australians for an academic route that may take them into the theoretical and philosophical lenses of their career options.
Passage 3:
Elizabeth and After
Elizabeth and After is a novel by Matt Cohen, first published in 1999 by Knopf Canada. His final novel, it won the Governor General's Award for English-language fiction just a few weeks before Cohen's death.

Plot summary
The story is about the lives of a few people living in a small town north of Kingston, Ontario.  Carl McKelvey, a "white trash male" as he describes himself, returns to the town after a three-year absence in the hope that he can live with his daughter again, and maybe even renew his relationship with his ex-wife, Chrissy.  He carries deep in his heart his guilt of having driven his car into a tree, killing his mother, Elizabeth, many years earlier.
Elizabeth's sudden death ended not only an unhappy marriage she had with William McKelvey, a failed farmer, but also a secret relationship she had with Adam Goldsmith, Carl's real father.  Elizabeth might have felt that the uncultured McKelvey ruined her life, or she might be too frightened to ruin her life herself by leaving him.  In either case, her life has affected McKelvey, Adam and Carl so deeply that her influence is still felt eleven years later.
When Carl is attacked by Fred (Chrissy's boyfriend), Adam, even though reserved and gentle-natured, decides to do something for his son.  Adam takes Fred in his car and drives him into the same tree that Elizabeth's car crashed into eleven years earlier.  Both Adam and Fred are killed instantly.  Carl learns about his relationship with Adam in a letter Adam left for him.

External links
Elizabeth and After weaves a twisted tale
Passage 4:
Matt Cohen (writer)
Matthew Cohen (30 December 1942 – 2 December 1999) was a Canadian writer who published both mainstream literature under his own name and children's literature under the pseudonym Teddy Jam.

History
Matt Cohen was born in Montreal, son of Morris Cohen and Beatrice Sohn, and was raised in Kingston and Ottawa. He studied political economy at the University of Toronto and taught political philosophy and religion at McMaster University in the late 1960s before publishing his first novel Korsoniloff in 1969.His fiction was translated into German, Dutch, French, Greek, Spanish and Portuguese.  The Spanish Doctor, his biggest international success, continues to sell well in the French and Spanish markets.
His greatest critical success as a writer was his final novel Elizabeth and After which won the 1999 Governor General's Award for English-language Fiction only a few weeks before his death. He had been nominated twice previously, but had not won, in 1979 for The Sweet Second Summer of Kitty Malone and in 1997 for Last Seen.
A founding member of the Writers' Union of Canada, he served on the executive board for many years and as president in 1986. During his presidency, the Writer's Union was finally able to persuade the government of Canada to form a commission and establish a Public Lending Right program.  He also served on the Toronto Arts Council as chair of the Literary Division and was able to obtain increased funding for writers. In recognition of this work, he was awarded a Toronto Arts Award and the Harbourfront Prize.
He also published a number of children's books under the pseudonym Teddy Jam. Cohen's authorship of the Teddy Jam books was not revealed until after his death. Dr. Kiss, illustrated by Joanne Fitzgerald won the Governor General's Award in 1991 and Fishing Summer was also nominated for a Governor General's Award for children's literature in 1997, making Cohen one of the few writers ever to be nominated for Governor General's Awards in two different categories in the same year.
He was married three times; first to Arden Ford, next to Susan Bricker and then to Patsy Aldana.Cohen died at home in Toronto after a battle with lung cancer. His final book of short stories, Getting Lucky, and his final Teddy Jam title, The Kid's Line, were posthumously published in 2001. A Canadian literary award, the Matt Cohen Award, is presented in Cohen's memory by the Writers' Trust of Canada.A film adaptation of his 1990 novel Emotional Arithmetic has been produced by Triptych films starring Max von Sydow, Christopher Plummer, Gabriel Byrne and Susan Sarandon. It was the closing gala at the 2007 Toronto International Film Festival.

Bibliography
Years link to corresponding year in literature or, for poetry, to year in poetry.

Novels
Korsoniloff (1969)
Johnny Crackle Sings (1971)
The Disinherited (1974)
Wooden Hunters (1975)
The Colours of War (1977)
The Sweet Second Summer of Kitty Malone (1979)
Flowers of Darkness (1981)
The Spanish Doctor (1984)
Nadine (1987)
Emotional Arithmetic (1990)
Freud: The Paris Notebooks (1991)
The Bookseller (1993)
Last Seen (1997)
Elizabeth and After (1999)

Short stories
Columbus and the Fat Lady (1972)
Too Bad Galahad (1972)
Night Flights (1978)
The Leaves of Louise (1978)
The Expatriate (1982)
Café le Dog (1983)
Life on This Planet (1985)
Living on Water (1988)
Racial Memories (1990)
Lives of the Mind Slaves (1994)
Getting Lucky (2001)

Poetry
Peach Melba (1974)
In Search of Leonardo (1985)

Non-fiction
Typing: A Life in 26 Keys (2000)

Children's literature (as "Teddy Jam")
Night Cars (1987) illustrated by Eric Beddows
Doctor Kiss Says Yes (1991) illustrated by Joanne Fitzgerald
The Year of Fire (1993) illustrated by Ian Wallace
The Charlotte Stories (1994)
Jacob's Best Sisters (1996) illustrated by Joanne Fitzgerald
The Fishing Summer (1997) illustrated by Ange Zhang
This New Baby (1998)
The Stoneboat (1999) illustrated by Ange Zhang
ttuM (1999)
The Kid Line (2001) illustrated by Ange Zhang

See also
Canadian literature
Canadian poetry
List of Canadian poets
List of Canadian writers
Passage 5:
Algernon Methuen
Sir Algernon Marshall Stedman Methuen, Baronet (; 23 February 1856 – 20 September 1924) was an English publisher and a teacher of Classics and French.  He is best known for founding the publishing company Methuen & Co.

Background and education
Methuen was born as Algernon Methuen Marshall Stedman in London, the third son of John Buck Stedman, FRCS, and Jane Elizabeth née Marshall. He was educated at Berkhamsted School and then Wadham College, Oxford, from which he graduated with an MA.

Career
After graduating from Oxford, Methuen entered teaching, and rose to become head of High Croft Preparatory School at Milford in Surrey from 1890 to 1895. While teaching he began, as a sideline, writing a number of school textbooks under the nom-de-plume A. W. S. Methuen, of which his series on French, Greek and Latin were best known. Among his works were books on gardening and current affairs. In June 1889, Methuen began to publish and market his own textbooks under the label Methuen & Co. (later Methuen Publishing Ltd.). Two months later he formally adopted Methuen as his surname. His first success at publishing came in 1892 with the publication of Rudyard Kipling's Barrack-Room Ballads. He later published works by Hilaire Belloc, Robert Louis Stevenson, and Oscar Wilde.
Methuen was an outspoken critic of the Boer War. He stood for Parliament as the Liberal party candidate for the seat of Guildford in the General Election of January 1910. The seat was a safe Conservative seat and he was unsuccessful. In 1916, he was created a baronet, of Haslemere in Surrey, and he later published his own memoir.

Personal life
Methuen married Emily Caroline Bedford in 1884. He died in September 1924, aged 68, when the baronetcy became extinct.
Passage 6:
Journal of Applied Philosophy
The Journal of Applied Philosophy is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the Society for Applied Philosophy and edited by Elizabeth Brake (Rice University). It covers a broad spectrum of issues in all areas of applied philosophy, including work on the environment, medicine, science, engineering, policy, law, politics, economics, and education.
According to the Journal Citation Reports, the journal has a 2017 impact factor of 1.018, ranking it 24th out of 51 journals in the category "Ethics".

Journal for Applied Philosophy Annual Essay Prize
The Journal of Applied Philosophy awards an annual prize of £1,000 to the best article published in the year's volume.
2017: Natasha McKeever "Is the Requirement of Sexual Exclusivity Consistent with Romantic Love?"
2016: Federico Picinali "Base Rates of Negative Traits: Instructions for Use in Criminal Trials"
2015: Cheshire Calhoun "Geographies of Meaningful Living"
2014: Christopher Morgan-Knapp "Economic Envy"
2013: Daniel Friedrich "A Duty to Adopt"
2012: Avery Kolers "Floating Provisos and Sinking Islands"
2011: Jakob Elster "How Outlandish Can Imaginary Cases Be?"

Society for Applied Philosophy Annual Lectures
Each year since 2010, the Journal of Applied Philosophy has published the Annual Lecture hosted by the Society of Applied Philosophy.[1]

2017: Philip Pettit presented the lecture, 'Three Mistakes about Doing Good (and Bad)'. Read the article here.
2016: Arthur Ripstein presented the lecture, 'Reclaiming Proportionality'. Read the article here.
2015: Shelley Kagan presented the lecture, 'What's Wrong with Speciesism?'.
2014: Julia Annas presented the lecture, 'Applying Virtue to Ethics'. Read the paper based on this talk here.
2013: Larry Temkin presented the lecture, 'Universal Healthcare in the Developing World: Solution or Siren? Some Preliminary Thoughts'. Read the paper based on this lecture here.
2012: Joseph Raz presented the lecture 'Death in Our Life'. The paper based on this lecture can be read here.
2011: Amartya Sen presented the lecture 'The Global Reach of Human Rights'. The paper based on this talk can be read here.
2010: Philip Kitcher presented the lecture 'Militant Modern Atheism'. The paper based on this talk can be found here.

See also
List of ethics journals
Passage 7:
The Landlord's Game
The Landlord's Game is a board game patented in 1904 by Elizabeth Magie as U.S. Patent 748,626. It is a realty and taxation game intended to educate users about Georgism. It is the inspiration for the 1935 board game Monopoly.

History
In 1902 to 1903, Magie designed the game and play tested it in Arden, Delaware. The game was created to be a "practical demonstration of the present system of land grabbing with all its usual outcomes and consequences". She based the game on the economic principles of Georgism, a system proposed by Henry George, with the object of demonstrating how rents enrich property owners and impoverish tenants. She knew that some people could find it hard to understand why this happened and what might be done about it, and she thought that if Georgist ideas were put into the concrete form of a game, they might be easier to demonstrate. Magie also hoped that when played by children the game would provoke their natural suspicion of unfairness, and that they might carry this awareness into adulthood.The Landlord's Game has some similarities to the basic rules of the board game Zohn Ahl, played by the Kiowa Indians of North America. There are hints that suggest Elizabeth Magie might have known Zohn Ahl and incorporated some of the game's ideas.
In 1903, Magie filed for a patent on the game which was granted in 1904.  Magie and fellow Georgists formed a company, Economic Game Company, in 1906 New York to publish the game. Besides Magie, the incorporators were E. H. Monroe of Chicago and E. G. Lenbusher of New York. Magie approached Parker Brothers to publish this and one other game in 1909. The other game was accepted while Landlord's was rejected as too complicated.In the United Kingdom The Landlord's Game was first published in 1913 by the Newbie Game Company, formed by a Liberal Committee from the village of Newbie in Dumfries, under the title Brer Fox an' Brer Rabbit; although, despite the title change, it was recognizably the same game. Landlord sold well in the Northeast amongst its left-wing intellectuals, while Brer was unsuccessful.Scott Nearing, socialist professor of economics at Wharton School of Finance from 1906 to 1915, lived in Arden in 1910, where Magie invented the game, learned about the game and taught it to his students. College students made up their own boards to use with her rules. Various versions of the game popped up over the following years under a variety of names, Monopoly, Finance, and Auction being among them. Among the Atlantic City and Philadelphia communities of Quakers, the game was particularly popular with college students and economics professors. Jesse and Eugene Raiford, Quakers in Atlantic City, used household items instead of pawns and changed the properties to those of Atlantic City.With Magie's first patent having expired, in 1923, Magie decided to attempt to regain control by applying for another patent. On September 23, 1924, a second patent was issued to Magie for The Landlord's Game. Adgame Company (Inc.) published Landlord's Game and Prosperity under this patent in 1932.Robert Baron had Parker Brothers design its own version, Fortune, before negotiation to purchase her patents in case the discussion fell apart or she sold to another potential buyer, Dave Knapp, publisher of Finance. Magie held the patent until 1935, when she sold it to Parker Brothers for $500, equivalent to $10,672 in 2022. The company had recently started distributing Monopoly, which it purchased from Charles Darrow who claimed to have invented it.  The company only printed a very small run of the game to secure the copyright. Surviving copies of The Landlord's Game by Parker Brothers are considered by many the rarest of all 20th century board games. Parker Brothers pushed her game aside for Darrow's by 1936. Magie then did two interviews showcasing copies of the original board with The Washington Post and The Evening Star to show that Darrow was not the inventor of the game.In 1937, Carnival was published based on the 1904 version. Parker Brothers published their edition of the game in 1939.In a 2004 episode of PBS' History Detectives (title: "Monopoly; Japanese Internment Camp Artwork; The Lewis and Clark Cane"), the show investigated a game board belonging to a Delaware man, having an intermediate version of a game combining elements of The Landlord's Game and Monopoly. The investigators concluded that this game board was the missing link that proves that Monopoly was derived from The Landlord's Game.

Description
The set had rules for two different games, anti-monopolist and  Monopolist. The anti-monopolist rules reward all players during wealth creation, whereas the monopolist rules incentivize forming monopolies and forcing opponents out of the game. In the anti-monopolist or Single Tax version (later called "Prosperity"), the game is won when the player with the least money doubles their original stake.The board featured a track around the outside edge of the board split into blocks representing properties and had their purchase price, and their rental value listed in the block. New York City's Broadway, Fifth Avenue, and Wall Street were the top properties in price and rent. The published game included Chance cards with quotes attributed to Thomas Jefferson, John Ruskin and Andrew Carnegie.From the 1904 patented version to the published 1906 version, the property names were changed and the rule for increased rent for multiple railroads owned was added.

Patents
The game's first patent was the first issued for a game while claiming four features in the application, the most important feature was a continuous path game. At the time, most games had a start and end spot. With the first patent having expired in 1921, Magie applied for another patent with five new claims.
The claims of Magie's second patent could not include those of the first (now in the public domain) and leaned more towards the single tax theory of play. One common misconception is that Parker Brothers acquired the rights to Magie's original invention of Monopoly play and the unique design by purchasing the later 1924 patent. Parker Brothers acquired Magie's patent to The Landlord's Game but although both patents had the same name they covered different claims. The substitution or confusion of the early patent for the latter is still commonplace.

See also
Ralph Anspach's Anti-Monopoly
Bertell Ollman's Class Struggle
Passage 8:
Nicholas Eftimiades
Nicholas Eftimiades is an American government official, author, and educator best known for his work Chinese Intelligence Operations (1994). He currently resides in the Tokyo area. He is a current professor at Penn State Harrisburg.

Education
Eftimiades graduated from George Washington University with a B.A. in East Asian Studies and the National Defense Intelligence College with a M.S. in Strategic Intelligence.  He also did undergraduate and graduate work in Asia.  He is a Visiting Research Fellow at King's College, War Studies Department, London, United Kingdom.

Government career
Nicholas Eftimiades' 30 year government career includes seven years at the National Security Space Office leading engineering teams designing "generation after next" national security space capabilities. He was also Senior Technical Officer in the Defense Intelligence Agency, Future's Division, and Chief of DIA's Space Division. He served as DIA's lead for national space policy and strategy development.Mr. Eftimiades has provided numerous briefings and testimony on national security, technology, and space exploration issues to senior policy officials and the U.S. Congress. He testified before the President's Commission on Implementation of United States Space Exploration Policy   He has sponsored and chaired international conferences on U.S. and foreign defense policy issues.  He is a frequent lecturer and public speaker on future technology and societal changes and national security issues.

Chinese Intelligence Operations
Eftimiades first came into public view in 1994 with the publication of his book Chinese Intelligence Operations (Naval Institute Press, Annapolis, Maryland., March 1994). The book is an examination of the structure, operations, and methodology of the intelligence services of the People's Republic of China. The book received worldwide recognition with the Chinese government declaring Eftimiades "an enemy of the people" in the People's Daily newspaper. To date, the book remains the only scholarly analysis of China's intelligence services and operational methodology.Chinese Intelligence Operations gained worldwide attention when one of the Chinese companies identified as having a relationship with China's intelligence services was identified as a donor to the Bill Clinton presidential campaign through the Democratic National Committee. This revelation resulted in Eftimiades appearing on TV, radio, and being quoted in newspapers.  He appeared on CBS Evening News with Connie Chung, Dateline NBC, ABC's Day One, BBC America, National Public Radio and many other television and radio broadcasts.   Some organizations protested the CBS news broadcast as being racist. Eftimiades testified before the U.S. Congress on several occasions.

Science Fiction
Eftimiades' most recent work is a political and philosophical satire entitled Edward of Planet Earth.  The book is influenced by authors such as Alexander Zinoviev and Ignazio Silone—names not normally associated with science fiction.  The story takes place 200 years in the future and centers on a man, his computer friends, a female companion and their quest to communicate with God.

Non-Profit Activity
In 2001, Eftimiades founded a non-profit educational organization entitled the Federation of Galaxy Explorers to inspire youth interest in science and engineering.  Students in the Galaxy Explorers program attend after school "Mission Team" meetings where they participate in hands-on lessons that support National Science Education Standards. Mission Team members are rewarded for participation and achievements with ribbons, patches, medals, and certificates.  In addition to Mission Teams, Galaxy Explorers also have Summer Camps, Star Parities, and the Battle of the Rockets Competition.
Passage 9:
Stephen Henry Parker
Sir Stephen Henry Parker  (7 November 1846 – 13 December 1927) was a lawyer and Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Western Australia from 1906 to 1914.

Biography
Early life
Stephen Henry Parker was the second son of Stephen Stanley Parker (1817–1904) and his wife Elizabeth, née Sewell. He was the grandson of Stephen Parker (c. 1795 – 1879), a pioneer settler in York, Western Australia. Parker was educated at the Bishop's School, Perth, and was called to the bar in 1868.

Career
He became a member of the Western Australian Legislative Council and advocated responsible government for the colony. In 1878 he moved for the introduction of a bill to amend the constitution, but this motion was defeated. A constitution bill for responsible government was passed by the Legislative Council on 26 April 1889, but was met with some opposition in the British House of Commons. It was suggested and agreed that a delegation consisting of the retiring governor, Sir Frederick Broome, Sir Thomas Cockburn-Campbell and Parker should go to London to see the bill through the British parliament. The delegation was able to give a good answer to all objections raised, and subsequently the bill was passed and became law.
He served as colonial secretary in the John Forrest ministry from October 1892 to December 1894 when he retired. He was also chairman of the Perth City Council from November 1877 to 1879, for a few months in 1880-81 and Mayor from February to October 1892. In 1881, he joined with his brother George to form the well known law firm Parker and Parker (which in 1997 merged with the Perth office of Freehill Hollingdale & Page).

Personal life and death
He married Amey Katharine Leake, daughter of George Walpole Leake on 27 July 1872.  She died in 1914.  They had four sons and seven daughters who reached adulthood. Their second son Hubert Stanley Wyborn Parker (1883-1966) was the member of the Western Australian Legislative Assembly for North-East Fremantle in 1930-33, and of the Western Australian Legislative Council for Metropolitan-Suburban province in 1934-54. He was attorney-general for two months in 1933 and chief secretary in 1948-50.
Parker, and his brother George, were heavily involved with the East Perth (now known as Perth) Cricket Club in the W.A.C.A. Competition. He was club President from 1899 to 1903.
He died on 13 December 1927.

See also
Judiciary of Australia
Passage 10:
Elizabeth Blanchard (educator)
Elizabeth Blanchard (1834–1891) was an American educator who was the seventh president of Mount Holyoke College (as Principal and Acting President).
Blanchard graduated from Mount Holyoke Female Seminary in 1858, and taught there for twelve years before becoming the Associate Principal from 1872-1883.  She served as Principal from 1883-1888.  When Mount Holyoke Female Seminary received its collegiate charter and became Mount Holyoke College, she served as Acting President from 1888-1889.

See also
Presidents of Mount Holyoke College
Passage 11:
Elizabeth Gertrude Britton
Elizabeth Gertrude Britton (née Knight) (January 9, 1858 – February 25, 1934) was an American botanist, bryologist, and educator. She and her husband, Nathaniel Lord Britton played a significant role in the fundraising and creation of the New York Botanical Garden. She was a co-founder of the predecessor of the American Bryological and Lichenological Society. She was an activist for the protection of wildflowers, inspiring local chapter activities and the passage of legislation. Elizabeth Britton made major contributions to the literature of mosses, publishing 170 papers in that field.

Early life and family
Elizabeth Gertrude Knight was born on January 9, 1858, in New York City, one of five daughters, to James and Sophie Anne (née Compton) Knight. Her family operated a furniture factory and sugar plantation in the vicinity of Matanzas, Cuba, and she spent much of her childhood there. In later childhood, she attended a private school in New York before attending Normal College (later, Hunter College). She graduated from Normal College in 1875, at the early age of seventeen. On August 27, 1885, she married Nathaniel Lord Britton, an assistant in geology at Columbia College who shared her growing interest in botany. The couple had no children.

Career
After graduation in 1875, Elizabeth Knight joined the staff of Normal College as a critic teacher. She joined the Torrey Botanical Club in 1879, and in 1881 she published her first scientific paper in that organization's Bulletin, reporting observations of unexpected white flowers in two species of plants. She also observed the presence of a curlygrass fern, Schizaea pusilla, in Nova Scotia. In 1883, she became a tutor in natural science. It was at this time that she began to specialize in bryology and her first paper concerning mosses appeared. Britton collected fertile specimens of Eustichium norvegicum in Wisconsin and wrote the first description of its fruits. Although known since 1827, the plant had hitherto been known only in a sterile condition. Her Observer articles were models of popular scientific writings on plants which had “fanciful” titles like “The Humpbacked Elves” and “The Brownies.”After her marriage in 1885, Britton resigned her teaching position at Normal College, and took charge of the moss collections at Columbia in an unofficial, unpaid capacity. She served as editor of the Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club from 1886 to 1888; in 1889, she published the first of an eleven-part series of papers titled Contributions to American Bryology in that journal. Her catalogue of the mosses of West Virginia appeared in 1892, and the first of eight articles titled How to Study the Mosses for a popular magazine was published in 1894. These papers "sufficed to place Mrs. Britton in command of the bryological field in America." She worked with her husband to acquire for Columbia the moss herbarium of August Jaeger of Switzerland; Britton persuaded wealthy friends to contribute the necessary $6,000.
Britton, along with her husband, was one of the Torrey Botanical Club members who spurred the establishment of the New York Botanical Garden (NYBG). The couple also travelled to England in 1888 where Nathaniel was performing research at the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew. At Kew Nathaniel worked on the Bolivian botanical collections of Henry Hurd Rusby, a gift to Columbia; meanwhile, Elizabeth worked on mosses at the Linnean Society of London. Inspired by the quality and quantity of Kew's herbarium, library, and gardens, the couple set about organizing an institution of comparable stature for New York. A Club meeting was held in October, 1888 where rich and prominent citizens were recruited as incorporators. The Botanical Garden was established by act of the state legislature in 1891. Britton was important in the efforts to raise funds for the organization in the 1890s. Her husband became the first director of the Botanical Garden in 1896, whilst she volunteered there. It was largely through her interest that the collection of liverworts and mosses of William Mitten was acquired for the NYBG in 1906. In recognition of her service, Britton was named Honorary Curator of the Mosses in 1912, a post which she held until her death.Britton enumerated the ferns in the Rusby collection in 1888 and she published her examination of the Rusby mosses in 1896.

Britton travelled to various locations in the United States to collect botanical specimens, including the Great Dismal Swamp, the Adirondack Mountains, and the mountains of North Carolina. She accompanied Nathaniel on 23 of the 25 trips he made to the islands of the Caribbean and West Indies. Under her own name, she published her findings in the Bulletin in 1913–1915. Britton wrote the chapters concerning mosses for Nathaniel's Flora of Bermuda and The Bahama Flora.Britton worked with organizations to promote the study of mosses, especially by women scientists and she chaired the division of Bryophyta for the (Women's) National Science Club (NWSC) in 1897.As part of her unofficial position at Columbia, Britton acted as advisor to doctoral students, including James Franklin Collins and Abel Joel Grout. Together, in 1898 Grout and Britton founded the Sullivant Moss Chapter of the Agassiz Association. By 1908, it was known as the Sullivant Moss Society (and after 1949, as the American Bryological and Lichenological Society). Although relations between the two researchers later became chilly, Britton continued to participate in the Society, contributing articles to The Bryologist, its journal, and serving as its president from 1916 to 1919.Britton continued to study plants other than mosses. She published A Revision of the North American Species of Ophioglossum, the adder's-tongue ferns, in 1897. With Delia West Marble, she collected the type specimen of Thelypteris brittonae, a species of maiden fern, in 1906. Britton collected the type specimen for the orchid now named Britton's shadow witch (Ponthieva brittoniae).

In the first decade of the 20th century, Britton began to devote her time to the conservation of wildflowers. A gift of $3,000 by Olivia and Caroline Phelps Stokes to the NYBG spurred the creation of the Wild Flower Preservation Society of America. The first meeting was held on April 23, 1902 where Frederick Vernon Coville was elected president, Charles Louis Pollard was elected secretary, and Britton was elected to the Board of Managers. Other members of the board included Charles Edwin Bessey, Liberty Hyde Bailey, William Trelease, Charles Frederick Millspaugh and Alice Eastwood. Britton went on to serve as secretary and treasurer of the organization. The Society established numerous local chapters. It was incorporated in the state of New York in 1915, then reorganized as the Wild Flower Preservation Society in 1925, with Percy L. Ricker as its head. Britton promoted the cause for nearly 35 years, by publishing, lecturing, and conducting correspondence; her efforts led to adoption of legislation in various states, as well as local conservation activities in garden clubs and public schools. She published fourteen articles in the NYBG's Journal under the series title of Wild Plants Needing Protection.
In 1925, as chair of the conservation committee of the Federated Garden Clubs of New York State, Britton successfully led a boycott campaign against the common practice of harvesting wild American holly for use as a Christmas decoration. As a substitute, she promoted the propagation of the plant by cuttings for commercial use.
All told, during the period 1881 to 1930, Britton published 346 papers, of which 170 dealt with mosses. She wrote descriptions of six families of mosses for the New York Botanical Garden's Flora of America. Marshall Avery Howe described Britton as "a woman of extraordinary physical and mental energy—the possessor of a remarkably quick and brilliant intellect. She has left an enduring record in the literature of science, and her well-directed activities have had an outstanding influence in the conservation of the native flora of the United States."

Wild Plants Needing Protection
Wild Plants Needing Protection, written by Britton, is a New York Botanical Garden journal comprising fourteen articles. In the journal, she gives an in depth description of different wild plants and their importance to their environment. Each plant section included an illustration of the plant described, while also giving descriptions of both the scientific and historical background of the plants. This is shown in Britton’s journal of “Spring Beauty”: 

“The Spring Beauty was named by Linnaeus in 1753 in honor of John Clayton, an American botanist, and correspondent, who wrote, in 1743, a flora of Virginia." Britton then goes over how there are about twenty-five species of Claytonia plants. Her Journal entry of “Wild Pink” is an example of her descriptions which is conveyed within the writing when she states:“before the trees cast much shade, while their greens are still so exquisitely fresh and varied, a bright flash of color will attract the eye to the Wild Pink, growing in hilly places on rocks or often in their cracks and crevices with the Saxifrage."

Recognition and legacy
In 1893, Britton was the only woman among the 25 scientists nominated for charter membership in the Botanical Society of America. In 1905, she was one of three bryologists appointed to the nomenclature committee that would report to the 1910 meeting of the International Botanical Congress in Brussels. In 1906, Britton was one of only nineteen women listed in the first edition of American Men of Science. Her entry was marked with an asterisk: this "starred" listing was limited to the top 1,000 scientists in the book, as determined by the editors. Britton was starred in the five editions of the book that appeared through 1933.The moss genus Bryobrittonia is named for Elizabeth Britton, as well as fifteen species of plants and one of animals.Mount Britton, a double peak in El Yunque National Forest in Puerto Rico, honors both of the Brittons.In 1940, a memorial plaque in honor of Britton was installed in the new Wild Flower Garden of the New York Botanical Garden. A gift of the New York Bird and Tree Club, it is mounted on a ten-ton boulder of Bronx schist, and its text reads, "Let those who find pleasure in this garden remember Elizabeth Gertrude Knight Britton, lover of wildflowers and ardent advocate of their protection". The garden is now known as the Native Plant Garden, and the boulder as Britton Rock.Today, the Elizabeth Gertrude Knight Britton archive is held by the NYBG Mertz Library. It includes personal papers, manuscripts and published research, artwork and photographs, and printing plates. The archive documents Britton's teaching career at Normal College, as well as her participation in the Torrey Botanical Club and the NYBG. Her field notebooks can be found in the New York Botanical Garden Collectors' Field Notebook collection.The character of Alma Whittaker in the 2013 novel The Signature of All Things, by Elizabeth Gilbert, is modeled in part on Britton.

Later life and death
Elizabeth Britton died at her home at 2965 Decatur Avenue in The Bronx on February 25, 1934, following an apoplectic stroke; her husband Nathaniel survived her by four months. Although she was nominally a member of the Episcopalian faith, she was buried in the Moravian Cemetery on Staten Island, where her husband's ancestors had been early settlers and he held property.

Selected publications
See also
The Britton Cottage
Timeline of women in science
Passage 12:
Mary Gaunt
Mary Eliza Bakewell Gaunt (20 February 1861 – 19 January 1942) was an Australian novelist and writer. born in Chiltern, Victoria. She also wrote collections of short stories, novellas, autobiographies, and non-fiction. She published her first novel Dave's Sweetheart in 1894. Gaunt visited many countries in her life and she wrote about her experiences in five travel books.

Early life and education
Mary was the elder daughter of William Henry Gaunt, a Victorian county court judge and Elizabeth Gaunt, née Palmer (c. 1835–1922), and was born in Chiltern, Victoria. She was educated at Grenville College, Ballarat and the University of Melbourne, being one of the first two women students to be admitted there.

Career
She began writing for the press and in 1894 published her first novel Dave's Sweetheart. In the same year she married Dr Hubert Lindsay Miller (a widower) of Warrnambool, Victoria. He died in 1900, and, with only a small income, Gaunt (now also known as Mrs Mary Miller) went to London intending to earn a living by her writing. Gaunt left Melbourne on 15 March 1901 and never returned.
Gaunt had difficulties at first but eventually established herself, and was able to travel in the West Indies, in West Africa, and in China and other parts of the East. Her experiences were recorded in five pleasantly written travel books: Alone in West Africa (1912), A Woman in China (1914), A Broken Journey (1919), Where the Twain Meet (1922), Reflection - in Jamaica (1932). In 1929 she also published George Washington and the Men Who Made the American Revolution. Between 1895 and 1934, 16 novels or collections of short stories were published, mostly with love and adventure interests. Three other novels were written in collaboration with John Ridgwell Essex. A collection of interviews with Mary were published in the 1925 Girls' Own Annual under the headings "Pioneering for Women" parts I, II, and III, and "Strange Journeys I Have Made".
From the early 1920s, Gaunt lived mostly at Bordighera, Italy. In 1940 she fled Italy and died at Cannes in 1942. She had no children.
She had a sister Lucy, and brothers Cecil, Clive, Guy and Ernest; Guy and Ernest were both admirals of the Royal Navy, and Guy later became a Conservative Member of Parliament.

Bibliography
Novels
Dave's Sweetheart (1894)
Kirkham's Find (1897)
Deadman's: An Australian Story (1898)
Mistress Betty Carew (1903)
The Arm of the Leopard: A West African Story (1904) [with John Ridgwell Essex]
Fools Rush In (1906) [with John Ridgwell Essex]
The Silent Ones (1909) [with John Ridgwell Essex]
The Mummy Moves (1910)
The Uncounted Cost (1910)
Every Man's Desire (1913)
A Wind from the Wilderness (1919)
As the Whirlwind Passeth (1923)
The Forbidden Town (1926)
Saul's Daughter (1927)
The Lawless Frontier (1929)
Joan of the Pilchard (1930)
Harmony: A Tale of the Old Slave Days of Jamaica (1933)
Worlds Away (1934)

Novellas
Bingley's Gap (1888)
Down in the World (1893)
The Other Man (1894)

Short story collections
The Moving Finger (1895)
The Ends of the Earth : Stories (1915)
The Surrender and Other Happenings (1920)
Life at Deadman's : Stories of Colonial Victoria (2001)

Autobiography
Alone in West Africa (1912)
A Woman in China (1914)
A Broken Journey: Wanderings from the Hoang-Ho to Saghalien (1919)

Non-fiction
Where the Twain Meet (1922) - travel
Peeps at Great Men : George Washington and the Men Who Made the American Revolution (1929) - children's
Reflection in Jamaica (1932) - travel

Notes and references
Sources
E. Archer, 'Gaunt, Mary Eliza Bakewell (1861 - 1942)', Australian Dictionary of Biography, Volume 8, MUP, 1981, pp 632–633. Retrieved 30 October 2008
Serle, Percival (1949). "Gaunt, Mary". Dictionary of Australian Biography. Sydney: Angus & Robertson. Retrieved 30 October 2008.
Auslit Gaunt, Mary  (birth name: Gaunt, Mary Eliza Bakewell ) (a.k.a. Miller, Mary )

External links

Works by Mary Gaunt at Project Gutenberg
Works by Mary Gaunt at Project Gutenberg Australia
Works by or about Mary Gaunt at Internet Archive
Passage 13:
Pangasinan School of Arts and Trades
Pangasinan School of Arts and Trades, also referred to as PSAT, is a government institution of technical vocational education and training higher learning located in Alvear Street, Lingayen, Pangasinan, Philippines. PSAT is duly registered by the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority. All PSAT programs are accredited by the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA).
History: 
Pangasinan School of Arts and Trades (PSAT) is an outgrowth of the intermediate school organized by American Roy E. Blackman in 1904.  It served as a normal training department for teachers who intended to teach shopwork in the different municipalities of Pangasinan.  Through the late Provincial Governor, Hon. Isabelo Artacho, the Pangasinan Trade School building was constructed in its present site in 1907.
Mr. Jorge Garcia was the first Filipino principal and was succeeded by Martin Mendoza.  It was during the incumbency of Mr. Mendoza in 1923 that the first year high school level of the trade school was introduced.
In 1920 the first batch of students of the four-year trade curriculum graduated.  The shop courses offered then were Woodworking, Building Construction and Automotive.
In 1929 – 1930, the Pangasinan Vocational High School emerged as an offshoot of the merger of Home Economics Education, Normal Training Department and Trade Courses Program.
In 1935 – 1936, the Pangasinan High School and the Pangasinan Vocational High School were fused into one high school known as the Pangasinan Secondary School.
In 1939 – 1940, the Pangasinan Vocational High School became known as Pangasinan Trade School, an entirely separate entity from the Pangasinan High School of which it has earlier been a part.
On August 15, 1945, the Pangasinan Trade School was temporarily opened at Dagupan City due to the construction of the buildings in Lingayen.
On March 14, 1953, by virtue of Republic Act 704, the Pangasinan Trade School was converted into a National School of Arts and Trades and named as Pangasinan School of Arts and Trades (PSAT) whose curricular offerings were expanded to include Master of Arts in Vocational Technical Education, major in Practical Arts.  This gave PSAT the distinction of being the only vocational school offering graduate studies, in Region I.
In 1987, the offering of post-secondary technical-vocational education was retrieved from the Pangasinan State University which brought with it all post-secondary courses upon its conversion as a state university in 1978 and only the secondary courses were left with PSAT.
In 1990, PSAT  was elevated as a Higher Technical Education institution by virtue of Republic Act 7078.
In 1995, PSAT was transferred t the administrative supervision of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) by virtue o Republic Act 7845. It was, however, only in 1997 that PSAT became a full-fledged CSI (CHED-Supervised Institution).
On April 25, 2000, by virtue of CHED-TESDA Memorandum of Agreement, PSAT was transferred to the administrative supervision of the Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA).
On May 10, 2000 the Joint CHED-TESDA Memorandum Circular  No. 1, s. 2000, the Implementing Guidelines on the Transfer of CHED-Supervised Institutions (CSIs) to Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (TESDA) was issued. Dr. Geronimo S. dela Cruz, Sr. was the first Vocational School Superintendent of PSAT under TESDA supervision.
On April 1, 2001, Dr. Lina C. Alcantara took over as the Officer-In-Charge.  It was during her term when eleven (11) of the school offerings were registered under UTPRAS.  Three courses (Garments, Computer Technician and Hotel and Restaurant Technology) were registered WTR and seven (7) courses were registered NTR.
On August 3, 2005, Manuel A. Jaramilla, Ph. D. assumed the position of Officer-In-Charge.  It was during his term when Short-term courses were first offered which eventually boomed.   It was also during his term when 16 courses were registered under WTR status in June, 2007.  Technology Trainers were also granted Trainers’ Qualification I (TQ I) in support of the Competency Based Training Delivery.
On June 1, 2008, Clemencia T. Ibarra, CSEE and Civil Service Commission Local Scholarship Program – Masteral Degree Program and University of the Philippines Scholarship recipient assumed her post as Vocational School Superintendent I.
Her leadership and administration shall anchor in the full implementation of Competency Based Training Delivery, registration of short-term courses under WTR Status, institutional application and accreditation by Asia Pacific Accreditation and Certification Commission (APACC), improvement of school facilities, Instructional and Administrative Staff Development and Welfare Benefit Program, efficiency and transparency on school’s communication, financial, administrative, and supplies management, systems and processes, and institutionalization of income generating project.

Program Offerings
Junior & Senior High School
Automotive Servicing NC II
Bread and Pastry Production NC II
Commercial Cooking NC II
Computer Hardware Servicing NC II
Consumer Electronics Servicing NC II
Dressmaking NC II
Electrical Installation and Maintenance NC II
Food and Beverage Services NC II
Front Office Services NC II
Hairdressing NC II
Housekeeping NC II
Shielded Metal Arc Welding NC II
Trainer's Methodology Level I

External links
TESDA Accredited Assessment Centers – Pangasinan School of Arts and Trades
Passage 14:
Arthur Kroker
Arthur Kroker (born 1945) is a Canadian author, editor, educator and researcher of political science, technology and culture.

Life and career
He earned a PhD in political science from McMaster University in 1975. In addition to being a professor of political science at the University of Victoria, Kroker serves as director of the Pacific Centre for Technology and Culture (PACTAC), located at the university. Kroker was appointed to the Canada Research Chair in technology, culture and theory in 2003. He is the editor for the online academic journal CTheory, an international journal of theory, technology and culture.
Kroker has been an outspoken critic of the transformation of the early internet into a consumer-driven system ("virtual class"). Austrian magazine Monochrom interviewed him about his political motivations in 1996.He was married to Marilouise Kroker from 1971 until her death in 2018.

Bibliography
Books
Technology and the Canadian Mind: Innis, McLuhan, Grant (1984)
The Postmodern Scene: Excremental Culture and Hyper-Aesthetics (1987) (with David Cook)
Panic Encyclopedia: The Definitive Guide to the Postmodern Scene (1989) (with David Cook and Marilouise Kroker)
The Possessed Individual: Technology and the French Postmodern (1992)
SPASM: Virtual Reality, Android Music, and Electric Flesh (1993)
Data Trash: Theory of the Virtual Class (1994) (with Michael A. Weinstein)
Hacking the Future (1996) (with Marilouise Kroker)
The Will to Technology and the Culture of Nihilism: Heidegger, Nietzsche and Marx (2004)
Body Drift: Butler, Hayles, Haraway (2012)
Exits to the Posthuman Future (2014)
Technologies of the New Real: Viral Contagion and Death of the Social (2021) (with Marilouise Kroker)

As editor
Body Invaders: Panic Sex in America (1987) (with Marilouise Kroker)
The Hysterical Male: New Feminist Theory (1991) (with Marilouise Kroker)
The Last Sex: Feminism and Outlaw Bodies (1993) (with Marilouise Kroker)
Digital Delirium (1997) (with Marilouise Kroker)
Life in the Wires: The CTheory Reader (2004) (with Marilouise Kroker)
Critical Digital Studies: A Reader (2008) (with Marilouise Kroker)
Passage 15:
Poptropica
Poptropica is an online role-playing game, developed in 2007 by Pearson Education's Family Education Network, and targeted towards children aged 6 to 15. Poptropica was primarily the creation of Jeff Kinney, the author of the Diary of a Wimpy Kid series. As of 2015, he remains at the company as the Creative Director. The game primarily focuses on problem-solving through game quest scenarios, called "islands". Islands all center on a problem that the player must resolve by going through multiple obstacles, collecting and using items, talking to various characters, and completing goals. All islands, upon completion, award "credits," which are non-negotiable currency that may be used to buy costumes and special effects in the Poptropica store.
In 2011, Poptropica was listed on Time magazine's list of "50 Websites that Make the Web Great", where it was described as "an inventive megasite for kids with a wholesome and slightly educational bent". By 2012, the game had grown to have over 75 million registered users, with 35 million in the 15-25 age group. Versions of the game have been released on Nintendo DS and 3DS, iOS, and Android mobile devices. In May 2015, it was announced that Family Education Network was sold by Pearson to the interactive-education venture capitalist Sandbox Networks, and that Poptropica had "over 3.2 million monthly unique users in 200 countries and territories".In 2015, Poptropica was sold to educational-technology investment group, Sandbox Partners.In 2020, because of the discontinuation of Adobe Flash, Poptropica began porting their old islands that were built on Adobe Flash over to an HTML5 format. As a result of Poptropica's utilization of varying Flash engines, a number of islands were unable to be ported immediately, and were effectively removed from the game. Fan archivists later made 35 islands available once again via the Basilisk browser within the Flashpoint program.In April 2022, Poptropica announced that some of the old islands would return as part of a bundle on Steam. Though delayed by a day, the game was eventually released on May 26, 2022, and includes seventeen islands and Poptropica Realms.

Gameplay
When it first launched in 2007, Poptropica only had one island, titled Early Poptropica Island. By 2017, it had 58 islands to be explored, all with a different theme: examples include Back Lot Island, where the player helps produce a movie, and Super Power Island, where their goal is to defeat six super villains. Each island had its own quest, for which a player could receive an island medallion as well as 150 credits to spend in the in-game Poptropica Store. Starting July 6, 2011, Poptropica allowed players to replay islands without creating a new account, while still keeping track of all the Medallions the player had earned.

Advertisements
In addition to the available island quests, advertisers contract for temporary mini-games that appear on the site, sometimes targeted to players of a certain age group or gender. Regular advertisers have included Disney, Kellogg's Froot Loops, Lego toys, and various animated movies and DVD releases. Advertisement mini-games normally appear only during a two-week period. If the player completes an advertisement mini-game, they receive a temporary prize, usually related to the media being advertised.
A few Poptropica islands are themed after certain book series: these include Big Nate, Timmy Failure, Diary of a Wimpy Kid, and Magic Tree House. These islands are permanent, and can be played at any time. In 2015, a total of seven of these islands became members-only.

Mini-games
Poptropica features different mini-games that users can play with other people. These include Switch, Sudoku, Hoops, Sky Dive, Paint War, Star Link, Balloons, Soupwords and Pathwise. The game keeps track of how many times the player wins or loses a certain mini-game.

Spin-offs
Poptropica Adventures
In 2012, in partnership with Ubisoft, Poptropica released a video game for the Nintendo DS, titled Poptropica Adventures.

Poptropica: Forgotten Islands
On September 5, 2013, Poptropica launched Poptropica: Forgotten Islands, an iOS game, which allows players to meet new characters and discover story elements about Poptropica by finding artifacts littered throughout the game. It was also released on the Nintendo 3DS system through Ubisoft in 2014. It has been replaced on iOS and Android with a mobile version of the desktop Poptropica game.

Poptropica Worlds
On January 11, 2017, Poptropica announced via their blog that they were introducing another game called Poptropica Worlds, developed in Unity. It was released in spring 2017. Poptropica Worlds has new features, such as redesigned characters, customizable homes, and new islands. Returning players are able to port over their avatar's look and name to Poptropica Worlds. Poptropica Worlds can be played on both the web and mobile. If membership was bought for Poptropica, it carries over to Poptropica Worlds, and vice versa.

# Source Metadata

- Domain: longbench
- Context ID: ea9eeccfee7e476c560e306e939d8097
- Approx. Length: 15993 characters