# Context

Passage 1:
TML Entertainment
TML Entertainment is a record label launched by Canadian rock band Triumph in 2003. It is managed by Triumph's members Gil Moore and Mike Levine.
The label was previously known as TRC from 1995 until 2003. The decision for Triumph to launch their own label came after the band's 10 year/5-album contract with MCA Records expired at the end of 1994. Subsequently, all of Triumph's albums were re-released on the TRC imprint using the 1980s remasters. Then in 2003, TRC changed its name to TML Entertainment with the release of Triumph's live album and DVD Live at the US Festival. Over the last few years, TML has re-released the whole catalog with new remastered versions done in 2004/2005 and the concert DVD A Night with Triumph. Universal Music Group distributes the band's label in Canada and ADA (a small subsidiary of the Warner Music Group) in the US.
Passage 2:
Horse with a Heart
Horse with a Heart is the first studio album by Altan, released in May 1989 on the Green Linnet Records label.

Track listing
All titles arranged by Altan.

"The Curlew/McDermott's/Three Scones of Boxty/Unnamed Reel {= McConnell's}" – 4:11
"The Lass of Glenshee" – 4:38
"Con Cassidy's & Neil Gow's Highlands/Moll and Tiarna/Mcsweeney's Reels" – 4:27
"The Road to Durham" – 3:21
"An t-Oileán Úr" – 2:33
"An Grianán/Horse With a Heart" – 3:01
"A Bhean Udaí Thall" – 3:28
"Welcome Home Gráinne/Con McGinley's" – 3:18
"Tuirse Mo Chroí" – 4:06
"Come Ye by Atholl/Kitty O'Connor" – 3:11
"An Feochán" – 4:45
"Paddy's Trip to Scotland/Dinky's/The Shetland Fiddler" – 4:47All titles are traditional, except the following:

"An Grianán" and "Horse with a Heart" – composed by Frankie Kennedy
"The Curlew" – composed by Josephine Keegan
"McDermott's" – composed by Josie McDermott
"An Feochán" – composed by Tommy Peoples
"The Road to Durham" – composed by Armin Barnett and David MolkSee tune identifications for this album at irishtune.info.

Personnel
Altan
Mairéad Ní Mhaonaigh – Fiddle, Vocals
Frankie Kennedy – Flute
Paul O'Shaughnessy — Fiddle
Ciarán Curran – Bouzouki
Mark Kelly – Guitar

Guest musicians
Marie Askin – Piano on "The Lass of Glenshee"
Phil Cunningham – Keyboard, Whistle
Dónal Lunny – Bass Bodhrán on "A Bhean Udaí Thall"
Colm Murphy – Bodhrán
Steve White – Percussion on "A Bhean Udaí Thall"

Production
Phil Cunningham – Producer
Dan Fitzgerald – Engineer
John W. Davis – Assistant Engineer
Stephen Byram – Design
Ross Wilson – Artwork
Dave Harrold - Back cover photograph
Passage 3:
EmArcy Records
EmArcy Records is a jazz record label founded in 1954 by the American Mercury Records. The name is a phonetic spelling of "MRC", the initials for Mercury Record Company.During the 1950s and 1960s, musicians such as Max Roach, Clifford Brown, Cannonball Adderley, Dinah Washington, and Sarah Vaughan recorded for EmArcy.Today, it is a European jazz label owned by Universal Music Group. The catalogue is managed by the Island Records subsidiary.

Discography
Mono 12" LP series (1954–c. 1958)
Passage 4:
Biltmore Records
Biltmore Records was a United States based record label active from 1949 through 1951. The label was headquartered in New York City. Biltmore Records were often reissues of recordings no longer in the catalogues of other labels. When RCA Victor found out that Biltmore were making unauthorized reissues of material originally recorded by Victor, they sued Biltmore, putting Biltmore out of business.
They rereleased recordings by Glenn Miller and His Orchestra recorded for Columbia and Brunswick, Benny Goodman, the Original Dixieland Jazz Band, Duke Ellington, Bix Beiderbecke, and Paul Whiteman.

External links
Biltmore Numerical Listing: http://www.78discography.com/Biltmore.htm

See also
List of record labels
Passage 5:
Graeme Goodall
Graeme Goodall (1932 – 3 December 2014) was an Australian recording engineer and record label owner who was a key figure in the early days of Jamaica's recording industry, constructing several of the Island's studios, co-founding Island Records, and operating other labels in the United Kingdom releasing Jamaican music.

Career
Born in 1932, Graeme Goodall grew up in Caulfield, Victoria, and studied at Caulfield North Central School and Scotch College. In the early 1950s he worked at Melbourne radio station 3UZ briefly before studying television in London and training as an engineer with the International Broadcasting Company.He became involved in the independent record industry and travelled to Jamaica in 1954 to set up the first FM radio network in Kingston — Radio Jamaica Rediffusion. He went on to work as chief engineer of the Jamaica Broadcasting Corporation.He began recording local musicians at the Radio Jamaica studios, and went on to build Federal Records, Jamaica's first recording studio (which was rebuilt in 1961 and later became Tuff Gong Recording Studio) with local entrepreneur Ken Khouri to the rear of Khouri's furniture store on King Street. Goodall worked as a recording engineer for Ken Khouri on some of the earliest Jamaican studio recordings. The studio not only provided the Island's first recording facility but also produced acetate discs, allowing sound system operators to record tracks and have them available to play within hours.Known to the local musicians as "Mr. Goody", Goddall went on to assist with the construction of several studios, including Dynamic Sound, Studio One and later Channel One Studios, and carry out engineering work for producers such as Clement "Coxsone" Dodd, Byron Lee, and Leslie Kong, engineering recordings by Laurel Aitken ("Boogie in My Bones") Millie ("My Boy Lollipop"), The Wailers, Prince Buster, The Skatalites, Derrick Morgan, and Desmond Dekker, among many others. He also trained Jamaican engineers such as Sylvan Morris and Lynford Anderson.In 1959 he co-founded Island Records with Chris Blackwell and Kong, but his relationship with Blackwell broke down and he went on to start his own labels after relocating to the UK in 1965, the most successful of which were Doctor Bird and Pyramid. After Dekker's "Poor Me, Israelites" proved popular in clubs but failed to get much airplay due to its production, Goodall got Kong to send him the master tapes; he remixed it and released it in the UK in 1969 on Pyramid as "Israelites", the single going on to top the UK Singles Chart and sell over two million copies. He also ran West Indies Records and set up the Trojan Records subsidiary Attack Records.Goodall married his Jamaican wife Fay in 1961 and in the early 1970s they moved to the US. Goodall later worked as Southern Regional Manager for Sony Pro Audio.Graeme Goodall died at his home in Atlanta, Georgia on 3 December 2014 from natural causes, aged 82. He was survived by his wife, two children, and four grandchildren.
Passage 6:
Exit 13
Exit 13 is the thirteenth studio album by American rapper LL Cool J. It was released on September 9, 2008, on the record label Def Jam Recordings. This would be his last album release with the label.

Production
This album is the first LL Cool J album since G.O.A.T. to have the parental advisory label for explicit lyrics.  LL said in an interview with Chicago radio personality DJ Z that the vulgarities are not heavy and the edited version has alternate lyrics rather than simply omitting the vulgarities. LL and DJ Kayslay teamed up to release his first mixtape as a prelude to Exit 13 titled  The Return of the G.O.A.T..
Other contributors for this album include 50 Cent, Sheek Louch, Fat Joe, Ryan Leslie, Wyclef Jean, The-Dream, Lil Mo, KRS-One, Funkmaster Flex, Richie Sambora and Darlisa Blackshere.

Singles
A buzz single titled, "Cry," featuring Lil' Mo, was released as a digital download and international 12" single on June 17, 2008. The unofficial street single, "Rockin' with the G.O.A.T.," premiered on June 20, 2008.
The first official single, "Baby" featuring The-Dream was released on July 1, 2008, to the iTunes Music Store. On August 19, 2008, iTunes released the rock remix featuring Richie Sambora, lead guitarist of rock band Bon Jovi, with a rock rhythm and a sped-up tempo.
The second official single, "Feel My Heart Beat" featuring 50 Cent was released on August 26, 2008. The song did not enter the Billboard Hot 100. The official single version of the song was leaked to the Internet on November 27, 2008.

Critical reception
Exit 13 garnered mixed reviews from music critics. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album received an average score of 57, based on 5 reviews.Despite being too lengthy and containing lesser tracks like "American Girl", Jesal Padania of RapReviews praised the album for having a consistent sound of instruments and synths in the tracks and LL's strong lyricism, saying that "In other words, all that effort that LL finally put into Exit 13 has really paid off - and he is getting the best revenge of all... Showing Def Jam what they will be missing." Steve Jones of USA Today called it LL's "most aggressive album in years," praising his standard braggadocio and lady-swooning content for being consistently energetic because of an amalgam of young up-and-coming producers, concluding that "After 10 straight platinum albums, his last two have only gone gold. But he seems to have gotten his swagger back. He may be hitting the Exit, but he is not easing up on the gas."In The New York Times, Jon Pareles felt that LL more than holds his own with the sounds delivered by newer producers that lift his old-school meets new-school lyricism, concluding with, "To his credit, LL Cool J is too romantic to treat women as crudely as younger rappers do. And while this 76-minute album flags near the end, there's still more than enough smooth-tongued, quick-witted rhyming to justify his boasts." AllMusic's Andy Kellman said that despite tracks like "You Better Watch Me" and "This Is Ring Tone M..." that show LL at his best, he criticized the record for being too try-hard in sounding like the mainstream rap albums released that year, concluding that "Out with a whimper, not a bang, Exit 13 is an off-ramp leading to a boulevard of several mismanaged White Castle knock-offs."

Chart performance
Exit 13 debuted and peaked at number nine on the US Billboard 200 in the week of September 27, 2008, selling 44,000 copies in its first week of release. By October 2008, it had sold 80,000 copies in the United States, according to Nielsen SoundScan. Exit 13 would become LL Cool J's final album with Def Jam. In regards to the album's reception and lack of proper marketing, the he stated in 2009: "The record just really honestly, you know, didn't have that support that I wish it would have had. [I] can't blame anyone. It was my last record, and I guess for whatever reason, whether it was quality or business, you know, the company just decided that they were going to write it off and not really give it that shot."

Track listing
Sample credits

"Dear Hip Hop"
"I'm Still a Struggling Man" by Edwin Starr
"Cry"
"Half a Man" by Bunny Sigler
"I Cry" by Ja Rule feat. Lil' Mo
"It's Time for War"
"The Ultimate" by Jarrid Mendelson
"Listen to My Heart Beat"
"Take Me With You" by Lyn Christopher
"Heartbeat" by Taana Gardner
"Old School New School"
"Who Shot Ya?" by The Notorious B.I.G.
"Ur Only a Customer"
"I've Been Pushed Aside" by McFadden & Whitehead
"Mary Jane (All Night Long) (Remix)" by Mary J. Blige feat. LL Cool J
"We Rollin'"
"90% of Me Is You" by Gwen McCrae
"You Better Watch Me"
"Pee-Wee's Dance" by Joeski Love
"I'm a Hustla" by Cassidy

Charts
Passage 7:
Sleaszy Rider Records
Sleaszy Rider Records is an independent record label which was founded in 1999 by Tolis G. Palantzas. The head office of the label is located in Greece. The label is mainly distributed in Europe by Sony Music/EMI. The label also distributes releases in Greece from numerous labels, including Roadrunner Records, SPV, and Pagan Records.

Artists
Current artists
Aetherius Obscuritas
Ancient
Bomb and Scary
Cold Colours
Cain
Darkwalker
Dedication
Depression
Desert
Dreamlike Horror
Duster 69
Edge Of Anger
Fahrenheit
Foundry
Funeral Revolt
Fragile Vastness
Greifenstein
Grenouer
Hesperia
The Illusion Fades
In Memory
Irony
Jerkstore
Lipstixx N Bulletz
Liquid Graveyard
Lloth
The Lust
Nocta
Odious
Of the Archaengel
On Thorns I Lay
Overtures
Posithrone
Prejudice
Psychotron
Redrum
Ricky Warwick
Sandness
Satarial
Shadowcast
Snowblind
Solar Fragment
Soulskinner
Sound of Silence
Space Mirrors
Spider Kickers
Thokkian Vortex
Through Art
Thurisaz
Vinder
Voodoo Highway
W.A.N.T.E.D.
W.E.B.
Weeping Silence

Former artists
Ashes You Leave
D-Noiz
Deva Noctua Entropia
Deviser
En Garde
Enemynside
Fragile Vastness
Hannibal
Hellire B.C.
Hortus Animae
Imagika
Insidius Infernus
Kinetic
Korrodead
Midnight Scream
Nordor
Obsecration
Overload
Phantom Lord
Pleurisy
Powertrip
Re-Vision
Rotting Flesh
Sangre Eterna
Sister Sin
Sorrowful Angels
Sotiris Lagonikas
Transcending Bizarre
Underdark
Uranus
Wastefall
Windfall
Womb of Maggots
Passage 8:
Big Wide Grin
Big Wide Grin is the sixth studio album by Keb' Mo', it was released in 2001 by the Sony Wonder record label.

Track listing
"Everybody Be Yoself" (Chic Streetman) - 4:59
"Love Train" (Kenneth Gamble, Leon Huff) - 4:29
"Don't Say No" (Kevin Moore, Cynthia Tarr) - 4:17
"Infinite Eyes" (Essra Mohawk, Kevin Moore, John Lewis Parker) - 4:57
"Grandma's Hands" (Bill Withers) - 3:30
"Color Him Father" (R. Lewis Spencer) - 3:3
"Family Affair" (Sylvester Stewart) - 3:47
"The Flat Fleet Floogie" (Slim Gaillard, Bud Green, Slam Stewart) - 2:04
"I Am Your Mother Too" (Kevin Moore, Zuriani Zonneveld) - 4:03
"Big Yellow Taxi" (Joni Mitchell) - 3:45
"Isn't She Lovely" (Stevie Wonder) - 5:16
"America the Beautiful" (Katherine Lee Bates, Samuel Augustus Ward) - 3:35Sergio Gonzalez - Drums ( tr. 1,4,5,7,9 ) Laval Belle - drums ( tr. 2, 3) Roy McCurdy - drums ( 8,11 )
Freddie Washington - Bass (tr. 1,4,9 ) Kevin McCormick - Bass ( tr. 2,3,5,7,10 ), synth ( tr.7 )
Bob Hurst - Upright bass (tr. 8, 11)
Luis Conte –  Percussion (tr.1,2,4,5,9,10)
Jeff Young - piano, organ (tr. 1, 7), keyboards ( tr.2, 3), piano (tr. 8, 11)
Leo Nocentelli – Guitar ( tr.1 )
Greg Leisz - Mandola, Pedal Steel Guitar (tr.2)
Clayton Gibb - Banjo ( tr. 3 )
Joellen Friedkin – Electric Piano ( tr.4 )
Gerald Albright  – Tenor Saxophone ( tr.7 ), Charlie "Tuna" Dennis - guitar ( tr. 7 )
Passage 9:
Ace Fu Records
Ace Fu Records is an independent record label founded in 1998 by Eric Speck. It is located in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The label went on indefinite hiatus in 2007.

Roster
Acid Mothers Temple
Annuals
An Albatross
Aqui
The Dears
Devotchka
Ex Models
Illinois
Kaiser Chiefs
Man Man
Michael Leviton
Oneida
Officer May
Parts & Labor
Pinback
Priestess
Runner and the Thermodynamics
Secret Machines
The Sucka MCs
Ted Leo
Tunng

See also
List of record labels

External links
Official site
Passage 10:
Gramofon
Gramofon is a record label and event agency founded in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina in 2003. It's the biggest music label of alternative music in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
Since 2003, Gramofon has organized more than 200 concerts and music events. It is also the organizer of the Sarajevo Jazz Festival and Xenophonia festival.Gramofon is the exclusive distributor for Bosnia and Herzegovina of the labels ECM Records, Enja Records, ACT Music, Doublemoon Records, Pi Recordings, ESC Records, and Intakt Records.

Discography
Passage 11:
Takara (band)
Takara was an American rock band, formed in 1987 in Los Angeles, California. Takara recorded 5 studio albums for several different record labels in the U.S., Europe, and Japan. Founding member and lead guitarist Neal Grusky, and bassist Carl Demarco remained permanent fixtures in the band since its early days.

Biography
1980s - Early Days
Takara was formed in August 1987. After a few months of rehearsals the band made their debut in October with a show in Hollywood, California. The band proceeded to play many more shows throughout 1987-88. In November 1988, Takara went into the studio to record their first demo with producer Jeff Scott Soto. As they entered the studio it became apparent that the original singer was not ready to record. In order to finish the new Takara demo, Soto was asked to help out by providing vocals for the demo. This was the beginning of a long relationship between the band and Jeff Scott Soto.

1990s - The Soto Era
In 1990, Takara went back into the studio to record what would eventually become their debut album, Eternal Faith. In 1992 Takara regrouped and added new members who would perform in Eternal Faith. The line-up was ultimately completed with Jeff Scott Soto on vocals, Neal Grusky on guitar, Gary Schutt on bass and Bob Duda on drums. In August 1993, Zero Corporation (Japan) and Now and Then records (Europe) offered Takara a deal to release Eternal Faith in December 1993.
After a short break the band began to work on what was to become their second album. Before rehearsals began, bassist Carl Demarco replaced Schutt and they returned to the studio to record Taste of Heaven. The band enlisted Bob Daisley on bass for guest performances on two songs. Taste of Heaven was released in May 1995 by Zero Corporation (Japan) and Long Island records (Europe). Upon its release, Taste of Heaven had commercial success, and Long Island records brought Takara to Germany for a promo tour.
In 1996 Saraya Recordings, a new US label, asked permission to re-release Eternal Faith and Taste of Heaven as its first releases. Feeling that there was momentum starting to build, the band wasted no time in working on their third album. In 1998 they released Blind in Paradise through Zero Corporation (Japan), Point Music (Europe), and Saraya Recordings (US). Shortly after the release of ‘Blind in Paradise’, all of Takara's labels released a greatest hits album Eternity: Best of 93 - 98.

2000-2010 Changes to the Lineup
In late 1998, the Takara went through significant lineup changes, leaving only guitarist/band leader Neal Grusky and bassist Carl Demarco to rebuild begin writing new material. The band found drummer Chad Clark and keyboardist Brook Hansen. Brook and Neal had known each other for years and always shared similar ideas on music. The last to come aboard was vocalist Michael J. Flatters, who Grusky found through a mutual friend. With the band complete, Takara re-entered the studio in February 2000 to record their fourth album, Perception of Reality. One year later, it was completed and released on the Avalon Marquee (Japan), Lion Music (Europe), and Metal Mayhem (US) labels.
After a hiatus of several years, Grusky decided to reform Takara in 2008, once again with a new lineup. This lineup saw the arrival of several new members including Bjorn Englen (bass), Patrick Johannson (drums), and vocalist Gus Monsanto. Keyboardist Brook Hansen returned to the lineup. Jeff Scott Soto also returned after ten years to provide harmony vocals for the resulting 2008 album entitled Invitation to Forever. This album, released by Progrock Records, marked a turning point for Takara with Grusky taking his powerful songwriting to a much harder edge than on previous Takara albums. The album subsequently gained mass approval by fans and progressive rock critics alike.

2011-2019 Final Lineup and First Live Performances
After the release of Invitation To Forever guitarist and bandleader Neal Grusky was faced with some tough decisions. Feeling that the band had gone too far in the direction of a studio project with hired musicians contributing internationally, he opted to change the lineup once again in hopes of finding fresh local talent willing to pursue the local LA club scene. Grusky brought back Carl Demarco now "Carla DeMarco" "on bass, reuniting the core of Takara. After a long search for a suitable vocal talent, the band found Jamie Kelli, who had been regularly performing in the LA area. Drummer Gene McEwen, also active in the local scene, completed the lineup. With Kelli filling in temporarily on keyboards, Takara proceeded to prepare for a series of live shows intended to re-introduce the modern LA rock scene to both new and old material from the band. On October 30, 2010, Takara's new lineup performed their first live show to showcase new vocalist Jamie Kelli at Paladino's in Los Angeles, California.  In October 2011, Takara announced they would be contributing a song to a Randy Rhoads/Ozzy Osbourne tribute album which was released in the spring of 2012 by Versailles Records. Takara recorded a version of the song "Little Dolls" from the 1981 album "Diary of a Madman".
In 2019, Grusky announced that the then current members of Takara would be moving on to alternate projects, and that for the time being Takara would no longer be active. Neal Grusky went on to form the LA progressive metal band Prey For Sunday, releasing their first self titled EP in 2021. Vocalist Jamie Kelli relocated to the Boston area where he has since formed the hard rock band Jasper Lane, releasing their debut self titled album in September 2020.

Discography
Studio albums
1993 - Eternal Faith
1995 - Taste of Heaven
1998 - Blind in Paradise
2001 - Perception of Reality
2008 - Invitation to Forever

Compilations
1998 - Eternity: Best of 93 – 98

Related Projects
Talisman
W.E.T.
Prey For Sunday
Soul Sign
Jasper Lane
Passage 12:
Equity Music Group
Equity Music Group was an American country music record label founded in 2003 by singer Clint Black. The label was distributed by Koch Entertainment (now E1 Entertainment).
The name "Equity" was chosen to represent the equality between the artist and the label. According to Equity, "The artists will own what they create and get paid from the first scanned sale. In turn, the label has a vested interest in other aspects of the artist's career." The label closed in December 2008 due to financial difficulties.

Artist roster
The following acts were signed to Equity Music Group:

Clint Black
Laura Bryna
Carolina Rain
Kevin Fowler
Carolyn Dawn Johnson
Shannon Lawson
Little Big Town
Mark Wills
Blake Wise
Passage 13:
Metalworks Institute
Metalworks Institute is a post-secondary institution based in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada and Fredericton, New Brunswick, Canada. Metalworks Institute offers certificates, diplomas, and advanced diplomas, on-campus and online, educating students for direct entry into careers in the entertainment industry or for articulation into undergraduate degrees. The institute was founded by Gil Moore (Inductee of the Mississauga Music Walk of Fame) of the Canadian rock band Triumph (inductees into the Canadian Music Hall of Fame), and is the educational extension of Metalworks Studios, Canada's largest music recording studio, and Metalworks Production Group.  Metalworks Institute delivers programs in four core streams: Live Music, Recorded Music, Entertainment Business and Music Performance, at the flagship Mississauga campus and at the Fredericton campus.Metalworks Institute received the inaugural Canadian Music & Broadcast Industry award for Music School of the Year in 2016  and again in 2019.

History and accreditation
Metalworks Institute Mississauga was founded in 2005 and is registered as a Private Career College under the Private Career Colleges Act, 2005. Metalworks Institute Fredericton was founded in 2020 and is a Private Occupational Training Organization registered under the Private Occupational Training Act, 1996. Metalworks Institute offers diploma and advanced diploma programs, on-campus and online, as well as individual certificate courses. The Institute includes over 80 full-time staff members and has an enrollment of more than 250 students.On November 20, 2013, the Metalworks Group was the recipient of the SME Excellence Award at the Ontario Business Achievement Awards (OBAA), presented by the Ontario Chamber of Commerce. In 2016, Metalworks Institute received the inaugural Canadian Music & Broadcast Industry award for Music School of the Year. They then received the Canadian Music & Broadcast Industry award for Music School of the Year a second time in 2019  In 2019, Metalworks Institute received the inaugural Paul Kitchin Award for Community Involvement from Career Colleges Ontario for their sponsorship of the Sound Engineering Program at Interprovincial Music Camp (IMC).

Academic programs
Metalworks Institute delivers programs on-campus and online in four core streams:

Live Music
Live Event & Concert Production Diploma 
Live Sound Diploma 
Stage Lighting & Video Diploma

Music Business
Music Business Diploma

Music Performance
Music Performance Advanced Diploma

Recorded Music
Audio Production & Engineering Diploma 
Electronic Music Production Diploma 
Music Mixing & Mastering (Post Graduate) Diploma 
Recording Engineering Diploma

Interdisciplinary Programs
Music Performance & Technology Advanced Diploma 
Professional Sound (Audio Specialist) Diploma 
Professional Sound & Business (Studio Production Major) Advanced Diploma 
Professional Sound & Business (Recording Engineering Major) Advanced Diploma 
Professional Sound & Business (Live Production Major) Advanced Diploma

Part-time certificate courses
Metalworks Institute is officially certified as an Avid Certified Learning Partner and offers certified training in Pro Tools  for both music and post-production as well as for live Venue (sound system). They also offer certificate courses in Apple's Logic Pro, Steinberg Cubase, Ableton Live  and Reason as well as official certification courses in Waves Audio.

Flagship Campus and Educational Facilities
Metalworks Institute's flagship campus is located in Mississauga, Ontario, adjacent to Metalworks Studios and Metalworks Production Group. There are regularly scheduled campus tours which are open to the public. Prospective students and parents are able to meet the school faculty and find information related to the programs, courses, and student resources offered at Metalworks Institute.

Educational Amenities
Metalworks Institute's studios were designed by acoustician Terry Medwedyk. The equipment used by the institute to educate its students is the same as that used by the professional clients who make use of Metalworks Studios. The studios are equipped with SSL and ICON consoles, Pro Tools HD systems and a wide variety of industry standard microphones, plug-ins and vintage outboard equipment. The Institute's partnership with Metalworks Production Group also gives the show production students access to the equipment used to produce a large variety of live events such as concerts, theatrical productions, large and small scale business conferences trade shows and conventions.  The institute has four professional recording studios dedicated to student use.

Notable alumni
Akeel Henry, Jack Richardson Recording Engineer of the Year at the Juno Awards of 2023
Alessia De Gasperis, formerly known as Kai, Canadian singer-songwriter
Michael "Mickey" Brandolino, guitarist in Juno-nominated (2021, 2022) Valley
Nav, rapper
Noel Cadastre, Award-winning mixer, music producer, audio engineer (OVO Sound)
Riley Bell, Jack Richardson Recording Engineer of the Year at the Juno Awards of 2018
Tim Oxford, musician in The Arkells
WondaGurl, record producer
Passage 14:
The Autumn Offering
The Autumn Offering was an American metalcore band that formed in Daytona Beach, Florida, in 1999. After achieving some degree of local success, the band was signed to Stillborn Records, founded by Jamey Jasta of Hatebreed, in 2003. The band released one album through this label. The Autumn Offering later signed to Victory Records in 2005 and released four studio albums before ceasing activity in 2010.

History
Formation and debut album (1999–2004)
The Autumn Offering was formed in 1999 while all the members were still in high school and by 2003, they had completed several regional tours and self-booked US tours. Hatebreed vocalist Jamey Jasta took notice of the band, and signed them to his own Stillborn Records in December 2003. The Autumn Offering released their debut album Revelations of the Unsung on July 27, 2004, through Stillborn and was recorded by Zeuss at Planet-Z.

Signing to Victory Records and second album (2005–2006)
In 2005, founding member and lead guitarist George Moore parted ways with the band and was soon after replaced by Tommy Church, guitarist from End of All, which later became known as Killwhitneydead. The Autumn Offering signed to Victory Records in September 2005. Their first release through the label was a reissue of their debut album in early 2006, which was followed by their second studio album Embrace the Gutter on May 16, 2006. Embrace the Gutter was recorded with Jason Suecof (Chimaira, Trivium) at Audiohammer Studios.

New vocalist and Fear Will Cast No Shadow (2007–2008)
After completing Embrace the Gutter and a few national tours, singer Dennis Miller quit the band to pursue a normal life. The band continued on and eventually chose good touring friend Matt McChesney from Hell Within to replace him. The band also separated with original drummer Nick Gelyon in the studio during the recording of Embrace the Gutter. He was replaced by Brian Sculley soon after.
The band's next album, Fear Will Cast No Shadow was released on October 30, 2007, with new singer Matt McChesney. The album featured a slight change in sound for the band, having a more melodic sound and using more clean vocals than on previous releases.

Requiem (2009)
The Autumn Offering entered the studio on February 1, 2009, to begin recording Requiem at AudioHammer Studios with Mark Lewis. Recording was finished by March 2009, and the album was later released on June 9, 2009, through Victory Records. A music video for the song "The Curtain Hits the Cast" from Requiem was released.For the band's fourth studio album, The Autumn Offering took their music in a heavier direction contrasting the more pop and melody driven Fear Will Cast No Shadow. The album was described by the band as a more "mature" album featuring "longer songs, complex rhythms, and dynamic vocals." Further distancing themselves from their previous album, vocalist Matt McChesney wrote darker lyrics about substance abuse and being raised in a broken home, as opposed to songs about relationships. The song "Narcosis" is about McChesney's experience of being revived with an adrenaline shot after snorting heroin and cocaine at the same time.Requiem became The Autumn Offering's first charting album, peaking at number 36 on Billboard's Top Heatseekers chart.

The Autumn Offering (2010)
For the band's fifth studio album, The Autumn Offering recruited two members: guitarist Jesse Nunn of Silent Civilian and Scum of the Earth who replaced Matt Johnson, and bassist Carl Bensley of Instinct of Aggression who replaced Mike Poggione.The Autumn Offering was released on August 31, 2010, through Victory Records. The album featured another stylistic change for the band, this time going into a more melodic death metal and deathcore direction. Late that year, following the departure of guitarist Tommy Church, vocalist Matt McChesney stated that the band would be ending, citing burn out and "a million other things."

Band members
Current membersCarl Bensley – bass guitar (2010)
Tommy Church – guitars (2005–2010) (ex-Mushroomhead)
Matt McChesney – vocals (2007–2010) (ex-Hell Within)
Jesse Nunn (Saint) – guitars (2010)
Brian Sculley – drums (2008–2010)Former membersTony Cesaro – guitars (1999–2002)
Mike Bortle – drums (1999–2003)
George Moore – guitars (1999–2005) (ex-Trivium)
Dennis Miller – vocals (1999–2007)
Nick Gelyon – drums (2003–2007)
Jonathon Lee – drums (2007)
Allen Royal – drums (2007-2008)
Sean Robbins – bass guitar  (1999–2008)
Mike Poggione – bass guitar, vocals (2008–2009)
Erik Tisinger - bass guitar  (2009)
Matt Johnson – guitars (1999–2010)Timeline

Discography
Studio albumsRevelations of the Unsung (2004)
Embrace the Gutter (2006)
Fear Will Cast No Shadow (2007)
Requiem (2009)
The Autumn Offering (2010)

Music videos
Passage 15:
Mona Bone Jakon
Mona Bone Jakon is the third studio album by singer-songwriter Cat Stevens, released in April 1970 on the Island Records label in the United Kingdom and on A&M in the United States and Canada.

Overview
After a meteoric start to his career, surprising even his original producer at Deram Records with the hit singles "I Love My Dog", "Matthew and Son", and "I'm Gonna Get Me a Gun", Stevens' debut album, Matthew and Son, began charting. However, after the pressure for a repeat album of the same calibre, Stevens, considered a young teen sensation, was overwhelmed by a new lifestyle as well as the demands of writing, recording, performing, publicity appearances, and touring. His second album was a commercial failure and in the autumn of 1968, he was hospitalized, with a diagnosis of tuberculosis and a collapsed lung. For over a year, while recovering, Stevens virtually disappeared from the British pop scene. Mona Bone Jakon is notable not only for his return but for the emergence of a very different artist. The album sold slowly (at first) but over time has been certified Gold for sales/shipments of more than 500,000 copies in the United States.

Background
During his hospital-dictated year of bedrest, Stevens began writing a catalogue of songs to fill far more than his next album. After his recovery, he negotiated out of his contract with Deram Records and worked with former Yardbirds bassist Paul Samwell-Smith on a stripped-down sound. In contrast to his first two albums, these new songs were sparse arrangements. They were played on acoustic guitars and keyboards and accompanied by a smaller backing band, consisting of three other performers: second guitarist Alun Davies, bassist John Ryan, and drummer Harvey Burns—and on one song, "Katmandu", Peter Gabriel on the flute. Samwell-Smith also produced the album and brought Stevens a high-fidelity sound that was not as present on his previous releases. Samwell-Smith was one of the early producers in rock to push the lower bass frequencies more prominently into the mix in an attempt to keep up with the new audiophile generation, which was embracing larger home speakers and high-end phonographic cartridges. Stevens began to make the transition from pop musician to a folk-rock performer when the term "singer-songwriter" was just being coined.The songs themselves were darker in tone: the madrigal-inspired ballad "Lady D'Arbanville" elevated the tragedy of a lost lover (in this case, Stevens' former girlfriend Patti D'Arbanville) to that of a deceased one and "Trouble" was a plea to stave off death. There were also lighter songs: "Pop Star" showcased Stevens' dramatic change in voice by satirising the triviality of celebrity.
Though "Lady D'Arbanville" would reach No. 8 on the British charts, Mona Bone Jakon was only a modest success upon its initial release. The album attracted attention, however, in the wake of the commercial breakthrough of its follow-up, Tea for the Tillerman, and with the inclusion of three of its songs ("Trouble", "I Wish, I Wish", and "I Think I See the Light") in Hal Ashby and Colin Higgins's 1971 black comedy, Harold and Maude.

Origin of title
According to a 1972 interview with Stevens, the inspiration for the title was a name he created to describe his penis: "'Mona Bone Jakon' is another name for my penis. It's the name I give it. It's not some sort of secret vocabulary, it's just something I made up."Journalist Robert Chalmers reiterated this point for a 2003 interview with Yusuf Islam for The Independent on Sunday when he wrote: "When [Stevens] re-emerged in 1969, he had more than 40 new songs and released three triumphant albums in 15 months on Chris Blackwell's Island label: Mona Bone Jakon (his pet word for penis), Tea for the Tillerman and Teaser and the Firecat."

Critical reception
In a contemporary review for The Village Voice, music critic Robert Christgau gave the album a B+, noting that "this one has a nice post-creative trauma feel, intimate and sensitive. Recommended to singer/songwriter specialists." Later, he revised his review to a B- and expressed a newfound dislike for the songs "Lady D'Arbanville," "Trouble," and "I Wish, I Wish".In a retrospective review, Allmusic's William Ruhlmann gave it four out of five stars and called it "a group of simple, heartfelt songs played in spare arrangements on acoustic guitars and keyboards and driven by a restrained rhythm section". He added that "Stevens' craggy voice, with its odd breaks of tone and occasional huskiness, lent these sometimes sketchy songs depth".

Track listing
Personnel
Cat Stevens – acoustic guitar, classical guitar, keyboards, vocals
Alun Davies – acoustic guitar, backing vocals
John Ryan – double bass
Harvey Burns – drums, percussion
Peter Gabriel – flute on "Katmandu"
Del Newman – strings, arrangements

Production
Producer – Paul Samwell-Smith
Engineer – Michael Bobak
Mixing – Paul Hicks
Supervisor – Bill Levenson
Coordinator – Beth Stempel
Mastering – Ted Jensen
Design – Roland Young, Mike Diehl
Illustrations – Cat Stevens
Photography – Grazia Neri, Richard Stirling

Charts
Certifications and sales


== Notes ==
Passage 16:
Trevor Wyatt
Trevor Wyatt is a British record company manager and record producer.
Wyatt was Chris Blackwell's first employee at Island Records London. Trevor drove the Island cab, delivering records to the stores as well as taking the artists around when they came to town. As Island grew, Trevor became the studio manager, UK A&R manager, and house producer, first in Island's Basing Street Studios and then at Island's HQ at St Peter's Square in Hammersmith. As such, he became a source of knowledge on who had recorded what in the studio and where their sessions could be found. Many compilations on the Island label existed purely because Trevor found material in the archives and brought it to the appropriate label manager's attention. He was responsible for the Island Reggae Greats series of releases, and also found many alternate takes and demos for box sets by Nick Drake and Sandy Denny.
After the takeover by Universal Records, Wyatt followed Blackwell to Palm Pictures, where he worked for some years. He is now an independent artist manager.
Passage 17:
Necessary Records
Necessary Records is a record label based in the UK, founded by Warren Clarke, a former A&R executive at London Records and Edel, in 2003. Clarke describes that the label was born out of a creative necessity. "It's an outlet for records that should and must be heard. An outlet for artists that deserve to and will, touch the widest possible audience."It is most notable for being the record label of English indie rock band Hard-FiThe label was responsible for the release of Hard Fi's debut album, Stars of CCTV, before the label secured a two album worldwide licensing deal with Atlantic, which saw the album re-released in the UK and subsequently nominated for a Mercury Prize and two Brit Awards. The album also peaked at #1 in the UK albums chart in January 2006, reaching sales of 1.2 million copies worldwide, with over 830,000 in the UK alone. The band's second album, Once Upon a Time in the West, released by Necessary/Atlantic, also reached #1 on the UK album charts. The band's third album, Killer Sounds, released by Necessary/Atlantic went to #9 on the UK album charts.Necessary also have a publishing and management company.

Artist roster
Nights
Distophia
Hard-Fi
Maupa

See also
List of record labels
Passage 18:
Super Grit Cowboy Band
Super Grit Cowboy Band is an American country music band formed in North Carolina. It was founded by Clyde Mattocks, Libby Mattocks, Bill Lyerly, Danny Vinson, Dave Cavanaugh  and Alfred Ward. Active since 1974, the band recorded first with Sound Hut Studios. Beginning with their 1981 album, the band has recorded on its own Hoodswamp label.

History
The band formed in 1974, comprising Clyde Mattocks (steel guitar, Dobro, banjo, electric guitar), Danny Vinson (drums), Mike Kinzie (fiddle, saxophone, piano, harmonica, acoustic guitar), Bill Ellis (bass guitar, keyboards) and Curtis Wright (lead guitar).The band recorded their first album in 1977 featuring Bill Lyerly (Bill Lyerly Band).
Later the band recorded for its own label, Hoodswamp Records, and released three albums on it. In 1981, the band charted for the first time on Hot Country Songs with "If You Don't Know Me by Now," which reached No. 71. Between then and 1983, four more of the band's singles reached the country charts, including its highest-charting, the No. 48 "She Is the Woman." Billboard gave the band's 1981 album If You Can't Hang a positive review, praising the instrumentation as well as the rock influences.At one point, Don Cox was a member of the band. He later recorded All Over Town for Step One Records and charted at No. 29 on the country music charts with its title track. Wright later joined Vern Gosdin's road band, of which he was a member until 1989. After quitting that band, Wright was a solo artist for Airborne and Liberty Records, charting in the Top 40 with "She's Got a Man on Her Mind" in 1990 and releasing a self-titled album in 1992. He later recorded one album with Robert Ellis Orrall in the duo Orrall & Wright, then joined Shenandoah from 2000 to 2008. Wright has also written singles for Shenandoah, Ronnie Milsap, Daryle Singletary, and Carolina Rain.
Since 2010, the band has consisted of Mattocks and Kinzie, along with guitarist Mark Golladay, drummer Dexter Horton and bass guitarist Carroll Wade.

Discography
Albums
Singles
Passage 19:
Raised on Radio
Raised on Radio is the ninth studio album by the American rock band Journey, released in April 1986 on the Columbia Records label. It is the first album to not feature founding bassist Ross Valory, who was replaced initially by session bassist Bob Glaub and then by  Randy Jackson. Drummer Steve Smith contributed to a few tracks, but was replaced during the recording by session drummer Larrie Londin and then Mike Baird for the subsequent tour.
The album spawned three top 20 singles in the US: "Girl Can't Help It" (No. 17), "I'll Be Alright Without You" (No. 14), and "Suzanne" (No. 17). It also spawned a top ten single "Be Good to Yourself" (No. 9) It went to No. 4 on the Billboard 200 chart, and it was certified double platinum in the USA.

Background
Raised on Radio was released three years after Frontiers (1983). In 1984, both lead guitarist Neal Schon and lead singer Steve Perry released albums on their own; Schon in the band HSAS (Through the Fire), and Perry with his debut solo album, Street Talk. Perry considered leaving Journey following the release of Street Talk which he has referred to as "one of the most fun experiences I've had". Perry decided to return to working with Journey when he received a call from keyboardist Jonathan Cain, who wanted him to work on some unfinished songs.Following Perry's return to Journey, he began to take more control over the band's direction. Bassist Ross Valory and drummer Steve Smith were fired from the band, against the wishes of manager Herbie Herbert. According to Perry, Valory and Smith "weren't pleased with the kind of music we were playing and weren't too keen on touring". Smith later said of the initial recording process: "There was a lot of pressure to do it the way Steve Perry wanted, which I had a lot of problems with because I felt it should be a group record, like all the other records." Valory was replaced by Randy Jackson (bass guitar) and Smith was replaced by session musician Larrie Londin (drums). In the VH-1 Behind the Music episode featuring the band, Perry expressed regret over his decision, stating he'd have done things differently. Smith did record three tracks with Journey on the album, and he and Valory still received revenues from the record and subsequent tour. Both returned to Journey in 1995.
The band decided that Perry, who had proved his production capabilities on Street Talk, was the best fit to produce the album. According to Perry, this gave the rest of the band members as much creative control as possible: "Journey knows what it should sound like, so we all agreed I would be a good, safe, nondictator-type producer."Perry changed the original title of this project from Freedom to Raised on Radio, which drew the ire of Herbert and some of the band members, as it varied from the one-word general theme in most of their previous albums. The band would end up using the Freedom title 36 years later for their fifteenth studio album.
The subsequent tour featured Schon, Perry, Cain, and Jackson, with drummer Mike Baird .

Artwork
The cover of the album (by Prairie Prince, an early member of the band) was modeled after the studios and antennas for KNGS in Hanford, California, which was owned by Perry's parents, Ray and Mary Perry.

Songs
Cash Box said of "Suzanne" that "Somewhat brooding verses give way to explosive choruses which feature Steve Perry’s potent singing" and that "Journey has captured the essence of teen romance." Billboard said of it that Journey's "power rock style gets adapted just a bit here toward the techno-dance idiom."Cash Box said of "Why Can't This Night Go On Forever" that it's a "rousing, emotional ballad is pure Journey" with a "bracing, high-wire vocal" from Steve Perry.

Track listing
Personnel
Credits for Raised on Radio adapted from liner notes.Journey

Steve Perry – lead vocals
Jonathan Cain – keyboards, backing vocals
Neal Schon – guitars, guitar synthesizer, backing vocals, keyboards (10)
Randy Jackson – bass (all tracks except 2, 10 and 11), backing vocals (all tracks except 2, 10 and 11)
Steve Smith – drums (2, 10 and 11)Additional musicians

Bob Glaub – bass (2, 10 and 11)
Larrie Londin – drums (all tracks except 2, 10 and 11)
Mike Baird – drums (12 and 13) (2006 CD reissue only)
Steve Minkins – percussion (3)
Danny Hull (credited as Dan Hull) – saxophone (2 and 7), harp (7)Production

Steve Perry – producer
Jonathan Cain – additional vocal co-production
Randy Goodrum – additional vocal co-production
Jim Gaines – associate producer, engineer
Mark McKenna – engineer
Steve Rinkoff – engineer
Robert Missbach – assistant engineer
Bob Clearmountain – mixing at Bearsville Studios and The Power Station (New York, NY)
Bob Ludwig – mastering at Masterdisk (New York, NY), remastering
Brian Lee – remastering

Charts
Certifications

# Source Metadata

- Domain: longbench
- Context ID: ecd74922a752931bc95d563fe3c7fa47
- Approx. Length: 11163 characters